Getting StartedThe Common Desktop Environment provides a standard set of online
documentation that covers the various CDE and Motif components.
The CDE desktop includes the Information Manager so that you can access, read,
and search through this documentation. The Information Manager also allows
you to access online documentation provided by other applications installed
on your desktop.The remainder of this chapter describes:







How Information Is Organizedinformation librariesorganization of

When you view information with the Information Manager, you are
looking at aninformation library(also called
an "infolib"). An information library is divided into one or morebookcases. Within each bookcase, you will find
one or morebooksthat contain most of the
elements you would expect to find in a hardcopy book.

Like a hardcopy book, an online book containssectionsthat contain mostly text but can include
graphics and tables. The book list for a book shows all the sections in
that book.

You can have multiple information libraries available
on your system.

The following figure illustrates the structure of an
information library.
# Information Library
Starting the Information ManagerInformation ManagerstartingYou can start the Information Manager by:Clicking on the Information Manager control in the Front Panel.Clicking on the Information Manager icon in the Information Manager
subpanel.Dragging and dropping an Information Library icon (shown in the File Manager
window) on the Information Manager control in the Front Panel.Entering thedtinfocommand from the Terminal window.When the Information Manager starts, it displays the Book List window. As shown in
the following illustration, the Book List window displays the available information
libraries.
# Book List Window
The contents of information libraries are arranged hierarchically so
that you progress from larger to smaller pieces of information.
The hierarchy consists of bookcases, books, chapters, and sections.To open any item in the hierarchy, click the right arrow next to it. The
Information Manager expands the item to show its contents.To close an item (chapter, book, book case), click the down arrow
next to it. The Information Manager collapses the item and removes its contents
from the display.To browse a section of a book, select the section name and then click
on the View (Binoculars) button in the tool bar or simply
double-click on the section's name. The Information Manager opens the
Reading window, displaying the contents of the selected section. The
following figure shows how text appears in the Reading window.
# Reading Window
With a section displayed, you can click the Previous Section and Next Section browse
buttons (located in the tool bar) to move to earlier or later sections.By clicking on hypertext links
(shown bold and underlined), you can move to other
locations in the book.You can keep the Book List window or the Reading window
open for easy access while you work. You can also minimize
these windows.Opening an Information LibraryInformation Managerstarting with specific information libraryInformation LibraryopeningWhen you start the Information Manager, it opens one or more default
information libraries. If the information library you want is not in the
default set, you can have the Information Manager start and open the library by:Dragging the information library's icon from the File Manager window
onto the Information Manager control in the Front panel.Double-clicking on the library's icon.Entering thedtinfocommand from the Terminal window
and specifying the library path for the-loption.If the Information Manager is already running, you can load an
information library by dragging its icon onto the Book List window or
the Reading window. You can also load an information library by clicking on
the Load Infolib button or by choosing Add from the Book List Edit menu.Exiting the Information ManagerInformation ManagerexitingTo exit the Information Manager:From the Book List window, choose Exit from the File menu.From the Reading window, choose Exit from the Browser menu.You can also exit from either window by double-clicking on the Window menu
button (in the upper left corner).Getting HelpInformation Managerhelp forhelpYou can request help by:choosinghelpPressing F1 or the Help keyF1 keyHelp keyChoosing an item from the Information Manager's Help menuClicking the Help button in a dialog boxThe quickest and easiest way to get help is to press the F1 key. When
you press F1, the Information Manager displays the help topic related to your
current activity.Some keyboards have a dedicated Help key that may take the
place of the F1 key.Help MenuHelp menuThe Information Manager provides a Help menu for requesting specific kinds of
help.OverviewDisplays introductory information about
Information Manager featuresTasksDisplays instructions for using Information ManagerReferenceDisplays summary information about Information Manager componentsOn ItemChanges the pointer to a question mark. Click the question mark
pointer on an item to display its descriptionquestion mark pointerUsing HelpDisplays information about using HelpAbout Information ManagerDisplays version and copyright information about
Information ManagerQuickInfo MessagesQuickInfo messagesmessagesQuickInfoQuickInfo messages are brief descriptions of window components. As you
move the pointer over a window component, its QuickInfo message appears
in the message area. The message describes the component and how to use
it. For example, if you place the pointer on the Previous Section
(Up-Arrow) button on the Reading window's tool bar, the message area
displays:Go to the previous section in documentUsing Help WindowswindowsHelpHelpwindowsWhen you access Help, the Information Manager displays a window containing
the requested Help text. For additional information about a described task,
click the More... button. To get help on using Help, click the Help button.
To close a Help window, click the Close button.Using Keyboard ShortcutskeyboardshortcutsKeyboard focus uses the highlight to show you which element of a window,
menu, or control will respond to your input. To activate a selected menu
item or control (such as a button), press the Spacebar.You may find it helpful to press F10 to put the focus in the menu bar.
This way you can navigate through menus either by using the arrow keys
or by pressing the first letter in the menu name.