Reading Books

You can move through an information library in several ways. The easiest
way to get started is to view an information library as a collection of
online books. Online books possess features similar to those found in
traditional hardcopy books. For example, online books are organized into
chapters and sections and have tables of contents. Online books also
have features, such as hypertext links, they are not present in hardcopy
books.

This chapter describes the basics of reading books, including:



Using Information Manager Windowswindowsusing

When you start the Information Manager, it displays the Book List
window, showing the information libraries on your system. The Book List
window provides traditional access to the information you want to read
in Information Manager. From the Book List you can open Reading windows
that display the contents of books in an information library.
To always see where you are in an information library, you can set the
Book List to track your location. From the Book List, you can also print
book sections.The following figure shows the Information Manager Book List window.
# Book List Window
When you double-click on the title of a section you want to read, the
Information Manager opens a Reading window that displays the text of the
selected section. From the Reading window, you can read text and access
all other Information Manager functions. Specifically, you can view text
and graphics, print, search, use bookmarks and notes, set preferences,
and get Help.The following figure shows the Information Manager Reading window.
# Reading Window
While most functions for Information Manager windows are the same as for
other windows in CDE, the following sections present some tips for using
Information Manager windows:









Setting the Book List to TrackBook Listsetting to trackwindowssetting Book List to track


To see quickly where you are in the hierarchy of the information
library, you can set the Book List to track your location automatically.

With automatic tracking turned on, a finger icon in the Book List window
points to the title of the section you are currently reading. As you
move through the information library, the Book List is automatically
updated to show your current location.

If the current section is subordinate to a section that is not
expanded in the Book List, the finger icon is &ldquo;hollow&rdquo; and
points to the title of the parent section.

To toggle automatic tracking, choose Auto Track from the Options menu
on the Book List window. Automatic tracking is on when Auto Track has a
check mark next to it.

Note that the tracking icon appears only when a Reading window is open.Using Multiple Windowswindowspinningwindowsusing multiple


The Information Manager allows you to use more than one Reading window at
a time. For example, you can hold the text of one window, while
you continue reading through sections in another window. To do this,
click the pushpin in the tool bar of the Reading
window. Clicking the pushpin switches between the pinned and
unpinned state.

If a window is pinned, the Information Manager opens another
Reading window for the next section you access. If a window is
unpinned, the Information Manager updates the current window
with the text of the new section.pushpinWhen a window is in the pinned state, the pushpin appears in
the upright position with a check mark next to it.

You can also pin Search Results windows. When you pin a Search Results
window, the Information Manager does not replace the results of the
first search with the results of subsequent searches. Instead, new
search results appear in separate Search Results windows.

Choose Preferences from the Options menu to specify whether all new
Reading windows will be pinned or unpinned by default. Keep in mind that
to save screen space, you will probably want to limit the number of
windows in use at one time.You may find it helpful to pin the Contents window when you
plan to follow multiple links.Resizing a Reading WindowwindowsReading windowresizingReading windowresizing
To change the size of a Reading window, use the mouse to drag and
stretch the window borders or use the Maximize button in
the upper-righthand corner of the window frame.
The new window size remains in effect for the
remainder of this Information Manager session or until you change it.
When you resize a Reading window, the text flow adjusts
automatically to the new window size.

To set the default size for the Reading window, choose Preferences for
Browsing from the Options menu and set the new size for Browser
Geometry. For more information on setting preferences, see.Duplicating a Reading WindowwindowsReading windowduplicatingReading windowduplicating


There may be times when you want to view two or more parts of
a long section at the same time. You can do this by
duplicating the Reading window.

To duplicate a Reading window, select New Window from the Browser menu.
The Information Manager opens another Reading window with the same
section displayed. In this second window, you can move to a location
different from the location in the first window.Closing a Reading WindowReading windowclosingwindowsReading windowclosing


To close a reading window, choose Close from the
Browser menu. When you close a Reading window,
you do not exit the Information Manager.

To exit the Information Manager, choose Exit from the Browser menu.Reading a Book Sequentiallynavigatingreading sequentially


The traditional structure of books in
the Information Manager provides a familiar way
to move around in an information library. You
can read books using features such as the Table of Contents.
You can also browse from section to section
in sequential order.

To browse through a book sequentially, you click
the Previous Section and Next Section browse buttons
(located in the Reading window tool bar)
to move to earlier or later sections.The Up arrow takes you to the previous section. If you are
in the first section, this arrow is not selectable.The Down arrow takes you to the next section. If you are
in the last section, this arrow is dimmed.

To preview the next or previous section, place the pointer on the
Previous Section or Next Section browse arrow. Then, click and hold the
mouse button. The Information Manager displays the title of the next or
previous section in the message area. If you don't want to go to the
indicated section, move the pointer off the arrow before releasing the
mouse button.Once you are positioned in a section, you can move through the section
by using the scroll bar, the Page-Up and Page-Down keys, or the Up- and Down-arrow
keys.