Navigating in the Information Manager

In addition to using the traditional book structure, there are
other ways in which you can navigate in an information library.
For example, you can read books in a library by
followinglinksto related information.
Or, you can use history and map features to find information.

This chapter provides information on:













You can also search directly for information on a particular item.
Seefor more information on initiating
a search, formulating a search query, and restricting the
scope of your search.Identifying Your Current Locationlocationidentifying current


With hypertext links, you can quickly and easily move from one
section, or even from one book, to another. As you move around within a book or
an entire library, your current location may not always be obvious to you.
You can easily identify your current location by using:

Locators. See.

Automatic tracking (the Book List). See.

Preceding section display (the History List).
See.

The graphical map. See.Using Locatorslocatorsusing


Each book and each section within a book has a unique identifier known
as alocator.
The Information Manager allows you to display locators and
then use them to access the sections they identify.Showing LocatorsShow Locatorlocatorsshowinglocationshowing locator
To display the locator for the book and section you are currently viewing,
choose Show Locator from the Browser menu.
The Information Manager displays the locator in the message area
at the bottom of the window.To return to a section at later point, you can record its locator and then
specify it with Open Locator.Going to LocatorsOpen Locatorlocatorsopeninglocationopening locator
To return to a section whose locator you previously identified with Show
Locator, choose Open Locator from the Go menu.
The Information Manager displays the following dialog so you
can specify the section's locator.
# Open Locator Dialog
Specify the locator of the section you want to go to.Click Apply to go that section and keep the dialog open; click OK to go
to the section and close the dialog.Following Linksnavigatingfollowing linkslinksfollowing


In the Information Manager, hypertext links appear as bold, underlined, and colored text.
Links provide a quick way to &ldquo;jump&rdquo; toOther parts of the current sectionOther sections in the same bookOther books in the information library

To follow a link in the Reading window, position the pointer on the link
text and click. To follow a link in a list window (such as the Section
History List), position the pointer on the link and double-click.

When you follow a link from an unpinned Reading window, the Information
Manager replaces the current section with the new one. If the Reading
window is pinned, the Information Manager opens a new Reading window to
display the new section.Previewing Link Destinationslinkspreviewing destinationsnavigatingpreviewing link destinations


From the Reading window, you can preview a link's destination before
deciding whether to follow it. To see the title of the destination
section:

Position the pointer on the link.

Press and hold down the left mouse button. The Information Manager
displays the link&rsquo;s destination in the message area at the bootom
of the window.

To follow the link, release the mouse button. If you decide
not to follow the link, move the pointer off the link before
releasing the mouse button.Retracing Your Stepsnavigatingretracing steps


You may want to return to a section that you viewed earlier in
your browser session. You can revisit sections by using either:

The Section History list. See.

History Arrows. See.Using the Section History Listnavigatingwith Section History listretracing stepswith Section History listSection History list


The Information Manager displays a record of the sections you have
visited during the current browser session. You can quickly check
the sections you have read by opening the
Section History list, shown in the following figure.
# Section History List
The Section History list includes each section visited from the most
recent to the least recent. Although you may have visited a section more
than once in a session, the Information Manager lists it only once.

To use the Section History list:

Choose History from the Go menu of the Reading window.
The Information Manager displays the Section History list.

To move to a section in the list, double-click on the section title or
highlight the section title and click Display. If the
Reading window is unpinned, the Information Manager
replaces the current section with the new one. If the
Reading window is pinned, the Information Manager
opens another Reading window to display the new section.

To close the Section History list without going to
a previousy viewed section, click Close.Using History Arrowsarrowshistoryhistory arrowsnavigatingwith history arrowsretracing stepswith history arrows


You may want to move either backward or forward through the
series of previously viewed sections. You can use the Reading
window&rsquo;s history arrows to move through the sections you have
read, in the order in which you read them. The history arrows
appear at the beginning of the Reading window toolbar, to the left
of the browse arrows.You can perform the same functions by choosing Back and Forward from the
Go menu.

If you visited the same section more than once in your browser
session, the history arrows will do the same.

The left history arrow takes you back through the section list; the
right history arrow takes you forward.

If you are positioned at the beginning or end of the section list, the
left or right history arrow becomes unselectable, indicating that you cannot
go any farther in that direction.Viewing Preceding Sectionsnavigatingwith section title buttonretracing stepswith section title buttonsectionviewing precedingpreceding sectionsviewingsection title button


You may want more general information than is presented in the current
section, or you may want a better perspective on what level of
information you are reading. In other words, you want to view a list
of the sections that precede the current section in the
book&rsquo;s structure.To view a list of the preceding sections, click on the section title
button, immediately above the viewing area.The Information Manager displays the list of section titles.You can scroll the list as far back as the name of the library
that contains the section's book.The top two items in the list represent the bookcase and the information
library. They cannot be selected because they do not identify a specific
section.To go to any section in the list, click on its title. If the Reading
window is unpinned, the Information Manager replaces the current section
with the new one. If the Reading window is pinned, the Information
Manager opens another Reading window to display the new section.To close the section list without moving to
another section, click the section title button
again.Navigating with the Graphical Mapmapnavigating withgraphical mapnavigatingwith graphical map


To orient yourself to a book&rsquo;s organization, you can display a
graphical map of its sections. The map is a graphical &ldquo;tree&rdquo;
that displays the titles of the book&rsquo;s sections. The map makes it
easier to see the overall organization of the book.
# Graphical Map
Opening the Mapgraphical mapopening


To display the map, click the Graphical Map button on the Reading
window's tool bar or choose Graphical Map from the Windows menu.The Information Manager opens the graphical map, showing the title of
the current section and the titles of the other sections in the book.Panning across the Mapgraphical mappanning


To see section titles that are not currently visible, you can pan across
the map. This ability is useful because maps are usually too large to be
displayed in their entirety.

The graphical map contains apanner boxin the
upper left corner that you can use to select which part of the map to
display.

To pan across a map:

Position the pointer on the panner box in the local section
map.

Press and hold the left mouse button.

Drag the mouse to display the part of the map you want
to see. For example, move the panner box to the right to
view titles that are hidden by the map&rsquo; s right boundary.

If you prefer, you can adjust the size of the
entire graphical map by resizing the window.Going to a Section from the Mapgraphical mapgoing to a section


To view a section shown on the graphical map, click the section's title.
If the Reading window is unpinned, the Information Manager replaces the
current section with the new one. If the Reading window is pinned, the
Information Manager opens another Reading window to display the new
section.Updating the Graphical Mapmapupdating


If you want to update the graphical map to show your current location in
a book, click the Auto Update button at the upper right of the Graphical
Map window. If you want the graphical map to automatically reflect your
location each time you move through a book, choose Preferences for Map
from the Options menu and set Auto Update to on.