Searching for Information

When you need specific information, searching for it is more efficient than simply
browsing. The Information Manager provides a full set of search features that
allow you to:Search quickly using simple search criteria. See.Perform detailed searches using the
Query Editor. See.Define the scope of searches
to cover a single section, or specific books and types of information.
See.View search results and
read sections containing search matches. See.

To minimize the size of the search database, the Information Manager
does not perform searches on many common words such asand,but,or, andthe.Searching Quicklysearchquick methodquick search


To search quickly on a simple word or phrase,
use the quick search field at the bottom of the
Reading window. You can enter search text manually or by highlighting
existing text and then choosing the On Selection option from the Search menu.
# Quick Search Field
Starting a Quick Searchquick searchstartingsearchstarting quick


To start a search from the quick search field:

Place the pointer in the quick search field
and delete the existing text, if any.

Type the search text.

When you place the pointer in the quick search field, the Search Scope
button to the left of the field identifies the scope to be used for the
search. If the indicated scope is the one you want to use, skip steps 3
and 4. For information on search scopes, see.

Click on the search scope button. The Information Manager displays a
list of available search scopes.
# Search Scope List


Click on the scope to use for the search.

Press the Return key to start the search.

The Information Manager displays search matches in the
Search Results
window. To move to a section containing a search match,
double-click the section title in the
Search Results window.

To create more detailed search criteria, you can use the
Query Editor.Searching On Selectionquick searchusing on selectionOn Selection


To perform a quick search using highlighted text:

Highlight the text for which you want to perform the search. (Place the
pointer at the beginning of the text. Hold down mouse button 1
and drag to the end of the text.)The highlighted text does not have to
be in the Reading window. It can be in any window on your system.

Choose On Selection from the Search menu of the Reading
window.

The Information Manager displays the highlighted text in the
quick search field and starts the search.Defining Detailed Searchessearchdetailed method


Detailed queries allow you to produce more precise search matches
in your search results. To define a detailed query, use the
Query Editor to:

Enter a detailed search query. See.

Specify the query prefix.
See.

Define relationships in the query.
See.

You can also set the search scope from the
Query Editor. For more
information, see.Entering a Detailed Search Querysearchentering queries


To enter a detailed search query:

Open the Query Editor by choosing Query Editor from the Search menu in
a Reading window. The Information Manager displays the
Query Editor window.
# Query Editor Window


Click the Prefix button. The Query Editor displays the Prefix list.
Click the prefix to use for the query: Contains, Doesn&rsquo;t Contain,
Starts With, or Doesn&rsquo;t Start With.

Type the first search term in the input field to the right of the Prefix button.

To include another term in the search, click the Connector button to the
right of the input field. The Query Editor displays the Connector list.
Select the connector to use for the query: Or or And. Repeat steps 2
through 4 until the query is complete.

Press the Return key or click the Search button to start the search. The
Information Manager displays search matches in the Search Results
window. The figureshows a typical Search Results window.

As you create your query, the Query Editor shows the query as defined
thus far in the Query display area at the bottom of the window. The
query definition shows how you would enter the query if you were typing
it into a Quick Search field.Specifying the Query Prefixqueryspecifying prefixprefixfor queries


To begin specifying a query, you use the Prefix button to indicate
whether your query Contains, Doesn&rsquo;t Contain, Starts With, or
Doesn&rsquo;t Start With the text you type in the search input field. To
do this:

Click the Prefix button. The Query Editor displays the Prefix list.

Click the prefix to use for your query:

* **Contains** 

Finds sections that contain the search text.
* **Doesn&rsquo;t Contain** 

Finds sections that do not contain the search text.
* **Starts With** 

Finds sections that contain words that start with
the search text.
* **Doesn&rsquo;t Start With** 

Finds sections that do not contain words that start with
the search text.


After you select the prefix, the Query Editor displays it on the Prefix
button. You can now proceed to enter the rest of your query.Defining Relationships in the Queryquerydefining relationshipsrelationshipsdefining in query


The Query Editor allows you to include more than one word or phrase in a
search. To specify a relationship between parts of a query, you use the
Connector button (to right of the input field) to display the Connector
list. From the Connector list, you can select the relationship you want.
You can specify that both the current part of the query and the next
part must occur, or that only one part must occur. In other words, a
relationship defines a condition for a valid match.

To define a relationship:

Specify the prefix and search text for the first
part of the query.

Click the Connector button.
The Query Editor displays the Connector list.

Click the connector for the relationship you want to define:

* **Or** 

Finds sections that contain a match for the current part of the query
OR the next part of the query, or both.
* **And** 

Finds sections that contain a match for the current part of the query
AND the next part of the query.


After you select a connector, the Query Editor displays the connector
you chose on the Connector button and starts the next line of the query.Defining the Scope of Searchessearchdefining scopescopedefining


Scopes provide a way of narrowing your searches. They help reduce the
size of search results lists by restricting them to more meaningful
matches. Specifically, you can usesearch scopesto limit the books and types of information (such as tables) that are
included in a search.

The Information Manager provides scopes for searching the current
section, the entire information library, or a specific bookcase.
These predefined search scopes include all types of information, including
titles, body text, examples, indexes, tables and graphics. You can
create custom search scopes to specify the books and types of
information that you routinely include in searches.

The remainder of this section provides information on:









Selecting a Search Scopesearchselecting scopesscopeselecting


When you start a search, the default is to use the last scope you
specified from that search area. The Reading window and the Query Editor
maintain their own default search scopes.

For example, when you start a search from the Reading window, the
Information Manager uses the search scope you used last. If you have not
yet performed a search during this browser session, the Information
Manager uses the current section as the scope for searches from the
Reading window. It uses All Infolibs as the default scope for
searches from the Query Editor.

You can select a different search scope by using the Search Scope button
at the bottom of the Reading window. Or, you can use the Scope Name
button in the Query Editor.Selecting a Scope from the Reading Window


You can use the Search Scope button to identify which books are included
in searches you start from the Quick Search field. To use a search scope
other than the one shown:

Click the Search Scope button to the left of the Quick Search field. The
Information Manager displays the Search Scope list. This list contains
the predefined scopes and any scopes you have created and saved with the
Scope Editor.

Select the search scope to use. The Information Manager replaces the
previous scope name with the new scope name on the Search Scope button.
The new scope remains in effect for the remainder of the session, until
you change it.Selecting a Scope from the Query Editor


You can use the Scope Name button to identify which books are to
be included in searches you start with the Query Editor. To use a search
scope other than the one displayed:

Click the Scope Name button. A list displays the names of the
available search scopes. This list contains both predefined and created scopes.

From the Scope Name list, select the name of the scope to use.Creating Search Scopessearchcreating scopesscopecreating


If you frequently search part of the information library for particular
information, you might consider creating and saving a custom search
scope. You create or change search scopes using the Scope Editor.Scope EditorOpening the Search Scope EditorsearchScope EditorScope Editoropeningscopeopening editor for


To open the Scope Editor from the Query Editor, click the Scope Editor
button at the bottom of the Query Editor window.

To open the Scope Editor from the Reading window, click the Scope Editor
button in the lower right corner of the window, or
choose Scope Editor from the Search menu.

The Information Manager displays the
Scope Editor as shown in the following figure.
# Scope Editor Window
Creating a New Search ScopeScope Editorcreating scopescopecreating


The left side of the Scope Editor window contains a list of the books in
the information library. You can expand or contract this list by
clicking the right or down arrows that precede each book title.

The right side of the Scope Editor window contains a list of the book
components that you can include in the scope. By default, the
Information Manager includes all components in your search.

To create a new search scope:

Click the New button.

Click the names of the books and components to include
in the scope.

Click the Save button. The Information Manager opens the Save Scope
window as shown in the following figure.
# Save Scope Window


Type the name of the new scope in the input field and click OK. The
Information Manager displays the new scope name in the Scope Editor
window.

To use the new scope in a query, you
access it as you would any of the pre-defined scopes.Changing Search ScopesScope Editorchanging scopescopechanging
To change an existing scope:

Click the Scope Name button in the Scope Editor window. The
Information Manager displays the scope list.

Select the scope you want to change. The name of the selected scope
appears on the Scope Name button.

To change which books are included in the scope,
highlight the titles of the books.

To change which components are included in the scope,
highlight the names of the components.

Click the Save button to save your changes.

When you are finished making changes, click
the Close button.

To restore the initial definition for the scope, click the Reset button
at the bottom of the window.

The Information Manager retains the scope you were previously using for
searches as the current scope. If you made changes to the current scope,
the Information Manager applies those changes on the next search made
with the scope.Copying Search ScopesScope Editorcopyingscopescopecopying


To copy a search scope:

Click the Scope Name button in the Scope Editor window. The
Information Manager displays the scope list.

Select the scope you want to copy. The name of the selected scope
appears on the Scope Name button.

Click the Copy button at the bottom of the window. The Information
Manager displays the Save Scope window.

Type the name for the copy and click OK to save it.Note that the scope continues to exist under its old name as well. Seefor
instructions on how to delete unwanted scopes.Removing Search ScopesScope Editorremoving scopescoperemoving


To remove a previously saved search scope:

Click the Scope Name button in the Scope Editor window. The
Information Manager displays the scope list.

Select the scope you want to delete. The name of the selected scope
appears on the Scope Name button.

Click the Delete button at the bottom of the window. The Information
Manager removes the scope, and displays the next search scope in the
scope list.Viewing Search Resultssearchviewing resultsSearch Results


After you perform a search, the Information Manager displays a list of
the sections that contain search matches. This list appears in the
Search Results window. From the Search Results window, you can go to
any of the listed sections by clicking its section title.

The following figure shows how matches are listed in order of descending
importance. The icon to the left of the book title indicates how often
the search term appears in the given section.
# Search Results Window


If the Search Results list seems incomplete, too long, or otherwise in
error, check to see that you used the appropriate search scope. Also,
check your preference setting for the maximum number of search hits.

When performing multiple searches, it is a good idea to pin the first
Search Results window. Then, when you perform another search, the new
results will not replace the results of the first search. Instead, they
will be displayed in a separate Search Results window.Browsing Search Hitssearchbrowsing hitsSearch Resultsbrowsing hits


After you have gone to a section from your Search Results list, you may
want to view each search hit within the section. Search hits appear
bold, underlined, and in a different color. The search hit you are
currently positioned on also has a dotted rectangle around it.To browse search hits within a section, use the Next Search and Previous
Search buttons in the Reading window's tool bar. (You can also choose
Next Search and Previous Search from the Go menu.)Next Search displays the next search hit. Previous Search displays the previous search hit.If you are at the last hit in the section, the Next Search button appears
dimmed. If you are at the first hit in the section, the Previous Search
button appears dimmed.Reviewing Results of a Previous Searchsearchreviewing previous resultsSearch Resultsreviewing previous


If you did not pin the results of a previous search, you can still
retrieve this list. To review a previous Search Results list:

Choose Search History from the Search menu in any Reading window.

The Information Manager displays the Search History window.
# Search History Window


Double-click on the search for which you want to
see the results.

The Information Manager displays the Search Results window for the
selected search.You can retrieve search results only for searches
performed in the current browser session.