Using Bookmarks and Notesbookmarksusing


You may want to identify particular sections or add comments to a
passage, as you would in a hard copy book. To personalize on-line books
in this way, you can createbookmarksand placenotesnext to text or graphics.

A bookmark is essentially a place marker. A note is an annotated
bookmark. The browser represents bookmarks and notes with
icons in the left margin of the reading window.

The following figure shows what a bookmark looks like.
# A Blank Bookmark


The following figure shows what a note looks like.
# A Bookmark with Notes


A line can contain more than one bookmark. The following figure shows what
multiple bookmarks look like.
# Multiple Bookmarks


Bookmarks and notes that you create in Information Manager are
personal. Other users cannot access them. To create bookmarks
and notes, use the
Marks menu in the Reading window.Creating BookmarksbookmarkscreatingYou can create a blank bookmark to mark your place, or you can
create a bookmark with notes.

You can always edit an existing blank
bookmark to add notes.Creating a Blank Bookmarkbookmarkscreating blankblank bookmarkcreatingTo create a blank bookmark:

Highlight the text or graphic that you want to mark. (Place the pointer
at the beginning of the text. Hold down the left mouse button and drag
to the end of the text.)

Choose Create Bookmark from the Marks menu.

The Information Manager displays the bookmark icon in the left margin of
the line containing the highlighted text. By default, the
selected text is used as the bookmark name. For
information on changing the bookmark name, see.Creating a Bookmark with Notesbookmarkscreating with notes

To create a bookmark with notes:

Highlight the text or graphic that you want to mark.

Choose Create Note from the Marks menu.

The Information Manager displays the Bookmark Editor.

Type your text in the Notes field.

Click OK to save the note and close the Bookmark Editor.

You can also add notes to an existing blank bookmark. Seefor more information.Listing Your Bookmarksbookmarkslisting


To view a list of all of your bookmarks, choose List Marks from the
Marks menu in any Reading window. The Information Manager displays the
User Marks List window, which lists both your blank and annotated bookmarks.

To display the section that a bookmark appears in, double-click on the
bookmark name.Viewing Bookmarks and Notesbookmarksviewing


To view an existing bookmark and its notes, double-click the
bookmark&rsquo;s icon in the Reading window. The Information Manager
opens the Bookmark Editor window, shown in the following figure. From the
Bookmark Editor, you can edit the bookmark name and notes.
# Bookmark Editor


If more than one bookmark appears on a line, the Information Manager
represents them with an icon that looks like multiple bookmarks. To see
a list of the bookmarks for a line, double-click the multiple bookmark
icon. You can then select the bookmark to view from the Edit Mark list.Editing Bookmarksbookmarksediting


You may want to add comments to a previously blank bookmark or change
comments you made in a previous browser session.

To edit or add notes to a bookmark:

Click the icon for the bookmark you want to edit.

Choose Edit Selection from the Marks menu.

The Information Manager opens the Bookmark Editor, which displays the
current bookmark name and any associated notes.

Type your changes to the bookmark name or the notes.

When you finish making changes, click OK.

As a shortcut, you can open the Bookmark Editor by double-clicking the
bookmark icon.Moving Bookmarksbookmarksmoving


You can move a bookmark from its current location to another
location in the same reading window. To move a bookmark:

Click the icon of the bookmark you want to move.

Highlight text on the line to which you want to move the
bookmark.

Choose Move Selection from the Marks menu.Deleting Bookmarks and Notesbookmarksdeleting


You can delete any bookmark you no longer want.
To delete a bookmark:

Click the icon for the bookmark you want to delete.

Choose Delete Selection from the Marks menu.

The Information Manager removes the selected bookmark from the book
margin.