Managing Graphicsgraphicsmanaginggraphics


You may want to remove a graphic from the document flow, placing
it in a separate window for viewing or manipulation (scaling).
Such a graphic is known as a "detached" graphic.
Some of the reasons you may want to detach a graphic include:Keeping a graphic displayed allows you to reference it as
you continue reading.Detaching a graphic provides a way to compare images
in the same or different sections.By detaching a graphic that is very large or that simply extends
beyond the width of your default Reading window size,
you can scale the graphic image without having to
resize the Reading window.Since the placement of some large graphics
can break up the text flow significantly,
you can improve the readability of a section
by detaching them.

You can easily manipulate and manage detached graphics. Specifically,
you can:

Resize the graphic window and position the panner button.
See.

Resize graphics.
See.

Find a graphic&rsquo;s original section.
See.

Reattach graphics.
See.Detaching Graphicsgraphicsdetaching


To detach a graphic from a book:

Choose Detach Graphic from the Options menu.
The Information Manager displays a cross-hair cursor.

Using the mouse pointer, click on the graphic to be detached.
(To cancel the operation, click anywhere outside of the graphic.)You can also detach a graphic by placing the pointer on the 
graphic and clicking the right mouse button. From the
popop menu, choose Detach Graphic.If a graphic is selected, the Information Manager displays
it in a separate window. In the Reading window, a Detached
Graphic icon appears in place of the graphic.

The following figure shows a sample Detached Graphic window.
# Detached Graphic Window


A detached graphic remains in a separate window until you reattach it,
close the detached graphic window, or end the browser session. This means that
during a session, you can close the section in which the graphic appeared while
continuing to display the graphic in a separate window.Resizing the Graphic Windowgraphicsresizing window


To change the size of a detached
graphic window, use the mouse to drag and
stretch the window borders or use the Maximize button in
the upper-righthand corner of the window frame.

When you reduce the size of a detached graphic window, the Information
Manager displays a panner in one corner of the window. To see hidden
parts of the graphic after reducing the window size, move the panner to
uncover the sections you want to see. The following figure shows a
Detached Graphic window with a panner in the window&rsquo;s top left
corner.pannerwith detached graphics window
# Panner


To relocate the panner to another corner of the window or to remove it
entirely, select the location you prefer from the Panner menu. The
Information Manager moves the panner to the corner you requested or
removes it entirely.Resizing Graphicsgraphicsresizing


You can use the options in the View menu to specify how a scalable
graphic looks in the Detached Graphic window. These options are inactive
for nonscalable graphics:

* **Fit to Window** 

Sizes the graphic to fit within the borders of the Detached Graphic
window.
* **Fit to Graphic** 

Sizes the Detached Graphic window to match the current size of the
graphic.
* **Scaling percentages** 

Increase or decrease the size of the graphic, relative to its initial
size.
* **Custom** 

Specify a scaling percentage for the current graphic.
Finding a Graphic&rsquo;s Original Sectiongraphicsfinding section


From a Detached Graphic window, you can open the section from which the
graphic was detached. To do this, choose Display Section from the
Detached Graphic window&rsquo;s File menu. The Information Manager opens
the window from which you detached the graphic and brings it to the top
of your other windows.Reattaching Graphicsgraphicsreattaching


You can replace a graphic in the book from which you detached it
by using any of the following methods:

Choose Attach from the Detached Graphic window&rsquo;s File menu.

Choose Close from the Detached Graphic window&rsquo;s File menu.

Double-click the Window menu button (upper-left
corner of the Detached Graphic window).

Place the pointer on the 
graphic and click the right mouse button. From the
popop menu, choose Attach Graphic.The Information Manager closes the Detached Graphic window and replaces
the graphic in the book, whether the book is currently open or not.