Printingprinting


With the Information Manager, you can print parts of a book or as much
as an entire bookcase. You can also easily specify which printer to use
or a file to which you want to print.

You may print only those documents for which
you are licensed.

To perform quick printing (without using the Print dialog box),
click the Print button on the Book List
window or the Reading window. You can also choose Print from the File menu of the
Book List window or the Browser menu of a Reading window.To print using the Print dialog box, choose Print... from the File menu of the
Book List window or the Browser menu of a Reading window. When
you do this, the Information Manager displays the Print dialog, as
shown in the following figure.
# Print Dialog
The Print dialog box contains the following buttons:

* **Print** 

Sends the selected section(s) to the designated printer or file.
* **Setup...** 

Displays the Print Setup window. From this window, you can
set printer-specific options and define both Printer and Job options.
* **Cancel** 

Cancels the print operation and closes the Print dialog box.
* **Help** 

Displays help information about the
Print dialog box.


For more information on printing from the Information Manager, see:







Printing an Individual Sectionprintingindividual sections


To quick print the section you are currently reading, click on the Print
button or choose Print from the Browser menu.  The Information Manager
prints the section without displaying the Print dialog box.To print the current section using the Print dialog box:

Choose Print... from the Browser menu.
The Information Manager displays the Print
dialog box with the section you are currently reading
selected.

In the What to Print area, make sure the Sections
radio button is selected.

To print the section to a file, click on the Print to
File radio button. Type the path name for the file in the input area or
click on the Select File... button to browse for the path and file
name.

To print the section directly to a printer, make sure the Print to Printer
radio button is selected.For more information, see.

Click Print to print the selected section.Printing Multiple Sectionsprintingmultiple sections


You can print multiple sections from either the Reading window or the Book List window.From the Reading Windowprintingfrom Reading window


To print from the Reading window:Choose Print... from the Browser menu.
The Information Manager displays the Print dialog box.In the What to Print area of the Print dialog, click the
Hierarchy radio button. This instructs the Information Manager to print
the current section and all its subordinate sections.For more information, see.To print the sections to a file, click on the Print to File
radio button. Type the path name for the file in the input area or click on the
Seclect File button to browse for the path and file name.To print the sections directly to a printer, click on the Print to Printer radio button.For more information, see.Click on Print to print the selected sections.From the Book List Windowprintingfrom Book List window


To print from the Book List window:In the Book List window, hold down the Control key and click on the
names of the sections to print.To select a range of contiguous sections, hold down the Shift key
while dragging the pointer over the section names.To deselect a section, hold down the Control key and click on the section&rsquo;s name.Choose Print... from the File menu.
The Information Manager displays the Print dialog box.In the What to Print area of the Print dialog,
click the Sections radio button.You cannot click the Hierarchy radio button with multiple sections
selected from the Book List.For more information, see.To print the sections to a file, click on the Print to File
radio button. Type the path name for the file in the input area or click on the
Select File... button to browse for the path and file name.To print the sections directly to a printer, click on the Print to Printer radio button.For more information, see.Click on Print to print the selected sections.

To quick print multiple sections from the Book List window
(that is, without using the Print dialog box):Select the sections to print, as described above.Click on the Print button or choose Print from the File menu.  The
Information Manager prints the section without displaying the Print
dialog box.Specifying What to Print


With the Information Manager, you can specify whether to print a single
section, a number of noncontiguous sections, or a group or related
sections. To do this, you use the What to Print area of the Print
dialog.

To specify that you want to print a single section or several
noncontiguous sections (available when initiating the print feature
through the Book List), click on the Sections radio button.

To print a section and its subordinate sections, click on
the Hierarchy radio button.

When you click on Hierarchy, the Number of Sections area of the Print
dialog changes to indicate how many sections are included in that
hierarchy.Specifying Where to Printprintingto a file


You can send selected sections or books directly to a printer, or you
can save the sections in a PostScript file for later printing.Printing Directly to a Printer
To print directly to a printer:Click on the Printer Name radio button.The Printer Name input area contains the X Printer Specifier of the printer
to be used for the print job. The X Printer Specifier is an identifier
that uniquely identifies an X Printer. The format of this specifier
is:printerName@host:display.screenThe .screenportion is optional.Use the printer whose name is displayed, or select a
different printer by clicking on the
Select Printer... button and using the printer selection dialog.Printing to a File
To print to a file:Click on the Print To File radio button.Type the name of the file to receive the PostScript output.
You can also select the directory and file by clicking
on the File Selector... button and using the file selection dialog.