Customizing the Information ManagerpreferencessettingInformation Managercustomizing


You can change aspects of several Information Manager features,
including preferences for:

* **Browsing** 

You can specify the default font size, window geometry, and pin window
state for the Reading window.
See.
* **Map** 

You can determine the default map geometry and whether the geographical
map updates automatically as you move through the information library.
See.
* **History** 

You can set the maximum number of section titles included in Section
History and Search History lists.
See.
* **Searching** 

You can indicate the maximum number of section titles to include in
Search Results lists and whether to display automatically the first
search hit in a Reading window.
See.


To change any of these attributes, you choose Preferences from the
Options menu of any Reading window. The Information Manager opens the
Preferences window as shown in the following figure.preferences windowexample of
# Preferences Window


To keep the preferences that existed when you first opened the
Preferences window, click Reset before closing the Preferences window.Setting Browsing Preferencesbrowsingsetting preferences forpreferencesbrowsing


You can change the following default window behaviors for the browser:

Browser Geometry.
See.

Font Scale.
See.

Pin Window State.
See.To display the Browsing Preferences window, select Browsing from the Preferences for
pull-down list.The following figure shows the Browsing Preferences window.
# Browsing Preferences
Changing the Browser GeometrypreferencesReading window sizeReading windowsetting default size


You can increase or decrease the default size of Information Manager
reading windows by changing the value in the Browser Geometry field. The
default size is 500x630 pixels.

To change the default reading window size:

Using the window manager&rsquo;s sizing feature, set a
window to the size you want to use as the default.

Click the box to the right of the Browser Geometry field. The
Information Manager displays a message about how to set the default
size.

Click inside the window that is the size you want as the default for the
Reading window. The Information Manager inserts the window coordinates
in the Browser Geometry field.

Click OK to apply the change and close the Preferences window.
New Reading windows will be the size you specified.

When you change the default size for the Reading window, existing
Reading windows are not resized.Changing the Font ScalepreferencesReading window font sizeReading windowsetting default font size


You can increase or decrease the font size for text displayed in the
Reading window. To specify a different font size, click the up arrow to
increase the font size or the down arrow to reduce it.

Click OK to apply the change and close the Preferences window. The
Information Manager changes the text in all currently displayed sections
to the new font size. All new Reading windows that you open will also
display this new font size.

Changing font size can affect the section&rsquo;s word wrap. To see the
effects of changing the font scale, without closing the Preferences
window, click Apply.Changing the Pin Window StateReading windowsetting default pin statepushpindefault setting forpreferencespin window state


You can change whether Reading windows automatically open pinned or
unpinned. By default, the Information Manager does not automatically
pin Reading windows. However, if a Reading window is unpinned,
its contents are replaced whenever you go to another section.

If you frequently pin reading windows so that you can open
multiple sections in different windows simultaneously, set
preferences so that reading windows open automatically pinned.
To do this, click the
Pin Window check box, then click
Apply.Setting Map Preferencespreferencesmapgraphical mapsetting preferences


You can change the following default attributes of the graphical map:

Map Geometry.
See.

Automatic Updating.
See.To display the Map Preferences window, select Map from the Preferences for
pull-down list.The following figure shows the Map Preferences window.
# Map Preferences
Changing the Map Geometrypreferencesmap sizegraphical mapsetting default size


You can increase or decrease the size of the graphical map by changing
the value in the Map Geometry field. The default size is 520x350 pixels.

To change the size:

Click the box to the right of the Map Geometry field. The browser
displays a message about how to set the default size.

Click the window that is the size you want as the default for the
graphical map. The Information Manager inserts the coordinates in the
Map Geometry field.

Click OK to apply the change and close the Preferences window.

The next time you start the Information Manager, the graphical
map&rsquo;s default size will reflect your change.Setting Automatic Updatinggraphical mapsetting auto update defaultpreferencesautomatic map update status


You can specify whether the Information Manager automatically updates
the graphical map to the section you are reading in the active reading
window.

To have the Information Manager automatically update the graphical map:

Toggle the Auto Update button to the setting you prefer.

Click Apply.Setting History Listspreferenceshistoryhistory listssetting defaults for


You may find that you never use most entries returned in Section History
and Search History lists and prefer to limit the length of these lists.
You can change the maximum number of sections included in:

Section History List.
See.

Search History List.
See.To display the History Preferences window, select History from the Preferences for
pull-down list.The following figure shows the History Preferences window.
# History Preferences
Changing the Section History Listpreferencessection history list sizesection history listsetting default size


You can change the maximum number of section titles that the Information
Manager maintains in the Section History list. The default is 100
sections.

To change the maximum number of sections in the Section History list,
click the up arrow to increase the number or the down arrow to reduce
it.

Click OK to apply the change and close the Preferences window. The
Information Manager restricts the Section History list to the number of
sections you have specified.Changing the Search History Listpreferencessearch history listsearch history listsetting default size


You can change the maximum number of section titles that the Information
Manager maintains in the Search History list. The default is 50
sections.

To change the maximum number of sections in the Search History list,
click the up arrow to increase the number or the down arrow to reduce
it.

Click OK to apply the change and close the Preferences window. The
Information Manager restricts the Search History list to the number of
sections you have specified.Changing Search Preferencespreferencessearchsearchsetting preferences for


You can set the following search preferences:

Maximum Search Hits.
See.

Auto Display First Hit.
See.To display the Search Preferences window, select Searching from the Preferences for
pull-down list.The following figure shows the Search Preferences window.
# Search Preferences
Setting the Maximum Number of Search Hitssearchsetting default for maximum hitspreferencessetting maximum search hits default


You may find that search hit lists return too many entries. To limit the
length of these lists, you can change the maximum number of section
titles displayed in the Search Results list. The default is 50 sections.

To change the maximum number of sections in the Search Results list,
click the up arrow to increase the number or the down arrow to reduce
it.

Click OK to apply the change and close the Preferences window. The
Information Manager restricts the Search Results list to the number of
sections you have specified.Setting Auto Display First Hitpreferencessetting auto display first hit defaultsearchsetting default for auto display first hit


To automatically display the first section containing significant search
hits, use the Preferences window to set the Auto Display First Hit
feature. When you click the Auto Display First Hit button, the
Information Manager toggles the feature On and Off.
Click OK to apply the change and close the Preferences window.