
# Integrating Fonts


Your application may be used by someone sitting at an X terminal, or by
someone at a remote workstation across a network. In these situations, the
fonts available to the user's X display from the X window server might be
different from your application's defaults, and some fonts may not be
available.

The standard interface font names defined by CDE are guaranteed to be
available on all CDE-compliant systems. These names do not specify actual
fonts. Instead, they are aliases that each system vendor maps to its best
available fonts. If you use only these font names in your application, you can
be sure of getting the closest matching font on any CDE-compliant system.

These standard interface font names are guaranteed to be available for all
locales, whereas the standard application font names are only guaranteed for
ISO Latin locales. See the man pages,DtStdInterfaceFontNamesandDtStdAppFontNamesfor more information.






# Standard Interface Fonts

# Default Font Namesfont namesstandard interfacestandard interface font namesfont names, defaultdefault font names


The set of standard interface font names is defined by the XLFD field name
values described in.
# Field Name Values for Standard Interface Font Names


`Field`

`Value`

`Description`

FOUNDRY

dt

CDE name

FAMILY_NAME

interface systemorinterface user

CDE standard interface font name

WEIGHT_NAME

mediumorbold

Weight of the font

SLANT

r

Roman

SET_WIDTH

normal

Normal set width

SPACING

p or m

ADD_STYLE

size hint

sansorserif

Proportional or Monospace values
from xxs to xxl

Sans for sans serif font or
serif for serif

PIXEL_SIZE

Platform dependent

POINT_SIZE

Platform dependent

RESOLUTION_X

Platform dependent

RESOLUTION_Y

Platform dependent

AVERAGE_WIDTH

m

p

Monospace for user font

Proportional for system font

NUMERIC FIELD

Platform dependent

CHAR_SET_REGI
STRY

Locale Dependent

ENCODING

Locale Dependent
# Point Sizes for Standard Interface Fonts


The seven named point sizes for each of the three styles are prepend in theADD_STYLE_NAMEfield. The font XLFD patterns matching these names can
match a named size, not a numeric size. These named sizes are used because
the exact size of an interface font is less important than its nominal size, and
implementation differences for the hand-tuned interface fonts do not allow
common numeric point sizes to be assured across systems.

The seven nominal sizes are as follows:xxs  extra extra small
xs  extra small
s  small
m  medium
l  large
xl  extra large
xxl  extra extra large

The goal of these named sizes is to provide enough fonts to display a variety
monitor sizes and resolutions that CDE will run on, and the range of user
preferences for comfortably reading button labels, window titles and so forth,
can be accommodated in the GUI. Both the smallest size, xxs, and the largest
size, xxl, are meant to be reasonable sizes for displaying and viewing the CDE
desktop on common displays and X terminals; they are not meant to imply
either hard-to-read fine print or headline-sized display type.
# Patterns for the Standard Interface Font Names


Using these values, the XLFD pattern-dt-interface*-*

logically matches the full set of XCDE Standard Interface Font Names. (Note
that no specific X server behavior is implied).

For example, in Western locales, the full set of 21 CDE Standard Interface Font
Names can be represented:-dt-interface system-medium-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
-dt-interface user-medium-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-interface user-bold-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1

The full set of patterns in theapp-defaultsfiles for all seven system font
sizes is:-dt-interface system-medium-r-normal-xxs*-*-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
-dt-interface system-medium-r-normal-xs*-*-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
-dt-interface system-medium-r-normal-s*-*-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
-dt-interface system-medium-r-normal-m*-*-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
-dt-interface system-medium-r-normal-l*-*-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
-dt-interface system-medium-r-normal-xl*-*-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
-dt-interface system-medium-r-normal-xxl*-*-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1

These patterns could be used in a resource file and will match the full CDE
Standard Interface Names for the iso Latin-1 locales on all CDE-compliant
systems. For more information, see theDtStdInterfaceFontNames(5)man
page.
# Usingfontsin configuration filesconfiguration filefontsFonts in CDE Configuration Files


CDE specifies a set of generic standard application font names, in several sizes,
that can be used by applications running under CDE on all platforms. Each
CDE vendor maps the standard set of font names to its available fonts. The
mapping of font names to existing fonts may vary from vendor to vendor.

When you use the standard application font names in yourapp-defaultsfiles, you can use a single<Filename>app-defaults<Default Para Font> fileapp-defaultsfile across all CDE platforms. If you
do not use the standard font names, you must supply a differentapp-
defaultsfiles for each application on each CDE platform.

All CDE systems provide a set of 13 standard application font names, in at
least 6 sizes, that represent 12 generic design and style variations (serif and
sans serif), as well as a symbol font. These standard names are provided in
addition to the names of the fonts that the standard names are mapped to for a
particular CDE platform. An additional four standard font names&mdash;to allow
both serif and sans serif designs in a monospaced font&mdash;may also be provided
by CDE platform vendors.

These 13 font names are provided in CDE platforms for the locales using theISO 8859-1 character setcharacter set ISO 8859-1ISO 8859-1 character set. See theCommon Desktop Environment:
Internationalization Programmer's Guidefor information on using standard font
names in other locales.
# Standard Application Fonts

# Default Font Namesfont names, defaultdefault font names


The set of standard application default font names is defined by the XLFD field
name values described in
# Field Name Values for Standard Application Font Names


`Field`

`Value`

`Description`

FOUNDRY

dt

CDE name

FAMILY_NAME

application

CDE standard application font name

WEIGHT_NAME

mediumorbold

Weight of the font

SLANT

r

i

Roman

Italic

SET_WIDTH

normal

Normal set width

ADD_STYLE

sans

serif

Sans serif font

Serif font

PIXEL_SIZE

*

Platform dependent

POINT_SIZE

`pointsize`

Point size of the desired font

RESOLUTION_X

*

Platform dependent

RESOLUTION_Y

*

Platform dependent

AVERAGE_WIDTH

p

m

Proportional

Monospace

NUMERIC FIELD

*

Platform dependent

CHAR_SET_REGISTRY

iso8859-1

Defining standards authority

ENCODING

1

Character set number

.

The standard names are available using the regular X Windows XLFD font-
naming scheme. When properly specified with appropriate wildcards for the
platform-dependent fields, a CDE font name is guaranteed to open a valid,
corresponding platform-dependent font. TheXLFDname returned from a call
to the XlibXListFontfunction, however, is not guaranteed to be the same on
all CDE platforms.

Using these values, the XLFD pattern-dt-application-*

matches the full set of CDE standard application font names on a given
platform. The pattern-dt-application-bold-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-p-*-*-*-

matches the bold, proportionally spaced CDE fonts, both serif and sans serif.
And the pattern-dt-application-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-*-*-

matches the monospaced fonts (whether serif or sans serif, or both).

The full set of CDE Standard Application Font Names can be represented as
follows:-dt-application-bold-i-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-r-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-i-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-i-normal-sans-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-r-normal-sans-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-i-normal-sans-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-sans-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-i-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-bold-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-i-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-p-*-dtsymbol-1
# Point Sizesfont point sizespoint sizesfor Standard Application Fonts


The complete set of point sizes available for each of the standard application
font names is determined by the set of fonts shipped with a vendor's CDE
platform, whether bitmapped only or both bitmapped and scalable outline.
The minimum set of sizes required and available on all CDE platforms
corresponds to the standard sizes of bitmapped fonts that make up the default
mapping for X11R5: 8, 10, 12, 14, 18, and 24.

For example, the entire set of six sizes of the plain monospaced font can be
represented by the patterns:-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-80-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-100-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-120-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-140-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-180-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1
-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-240-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1

These patterns match the corresponding standard font name on any CDE
platform, even though the numeric fields other thanPOINTSIZEmay be
different on various platforms, and the matched fonts may be either serif or
sans serif, depending on how the vendor implemented the set of standard
names.
# Standard Application Font Names in app-defaults filesfont namesstandard applicationstandard application font names


You can code a singleapp-defaultsfile to specify font resources for your
application and use it across all CDE platforms. Because the parts of the
standard names that are defined are the same across different vendors'
platforms, you can specify these values in the resource specification in theapp-defaultsfile. However, you must use wildcards for the other fields
(PIXEL_SIZE,RESOLUTION_X,RESOLUTION_Y, andAVERAGE_WIDTH)
because they may vary across platforms. For example, to specify some of the
default resource needs for an application namedappOne, you might use:appOne*headFont: -dt-application-bold-r-normal-sans-*-140-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
appOne*linkFont: -dt-application-bold-i-normal-sans-*-100-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1

As another example, suppose thatappTworunning on a vendor's platform
defines two font resources for headings and hypertext links.appTwouses a 14
point bold, serif font (Lucidabright bold) and a 12-point bold, italic sans serif
font (Lucida bold-italic). You would then change the font definition from:apptwo*headingFont: -b&h-lucidabright-bold-r-normal--20-140-100-100-p-127-iso8859-1
apptwo*linkFont:    -b&h-lucida-bold-i-normal-sans-17-120-100-100-p-96-iso8859-1

to:apptwo*headingFont: -dt-application-bold-r-normal-serif-*-140-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1
apptwo*linkFont:    -dt-application-bold-i-normal-sans-*-120-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1

in yourapp-defaultsfile. Even though you may not know the names of the
fonts on other CDE platforms, these platform-independent patterns specified
with the CDE standard application font names match appropriate fonts on
each platform.

You encode them exactly as shown, complete with the*wildcards, in your
resource definitions. By applying the wildcards to the numeric fields other than
point size, you ensure that the resources match CDE fonts on all platforms,
even if the exact pixel size or average width of the fonts is slightly different.

See theCommon Desktop Environment Programmer's ReferenceandDtStdAppFontNames(5)man page for more information.