
# Common Desktop Environment Motif Widgets


The Common Desktop Environment includes the Motif toolkit.Motif librarieslibrariesMotifwidgetsMotifIn addition, the
Common Desktop Environment provides four custom widgets you can use to
provide certainOPEN LOOK compatibilitycompatibilityOPEN LOOKOPEN LOOK&trade; andMW-windows compatibilitycompatibilityMW-windowsMicrosoft&reg; Windows functionality. This
chapter describes these Motif custom widgets.











Thewidgetlibrarylibrarywidget<Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font> librarylibrary<Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font>widget library,libDtWidget, contains two widgets that have now been superseded by Motif 2.1 widgets,
and two widgets that enhance functionality of Motif 2.1 widgets:

<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font> widgetwidget<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>widgettext field and arrow buttontext field and arrow button widgetarrow button and text field widgetwidgetarrow button and text fieldDtSpinBoxcombines a text field and arrow buttons in a control that can
increment or decrement numeric or text values.
It has been superseded byXmSimpleSpinBox.

<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font> widgetwidget<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>,widgettext field and list boxwidgetlist box and text fieldlist box and text field widgettext field and list box widgetDtComboBoxcombines a text field and a list box in a control that displays
one of the many valid choices for the text field.
It has been superseded byXmComboBox

<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font> widgetwidget<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>menu widget, pop-uppop-up menu widgetwidgetpop-up menuDtMenuButtonprovidesmenu cascading functionalitycascading menu functionalityfunctionalitycascading menumenu-cascading functionality outside of the menu
bar.

<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font> widgetwidget<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>widgettext editortext editor widgeteditor widgetDtEditorincorporates such single text editor functions as cut and paste.

These widgets provide common functionality across all Common Desktop
Environment applications. None of these widgets support subclassing.

The Custom Widgets library depends directly on the following libraries:

Xmlibrary for the Motif superclass support

Xtlibrary for creation and manipulation of widgets

X11Library for the base X Window System

DtSvcfor desktop support utilized byDtEditor
# Using Motif in the Common Desktop Environment


TheCDE Motif toolkitMotif toolkittoolkit, MotifThe Common Desktop Environment includes Motif 2.1, plus
four custom widgets. The custom widgets are described in detail in this
chapter.

The Common Desktop Environment is source and binary compatible with
Motif 1.2 applications. Existing Motif 1.2 applications will compile using
Motif 2.1 include files. Existing Motif 1.2 binaries will run without
modification using Motif 2.1 libraries.
# Motif LibrariesMotif librarieslibraryMotif


Use the Motif 2.1 and X11R6.2 libraries to develop a
Common Desktop Environment Motif-compliant application for the X Window
System.
# Motif Library (libXm)


Common Desktop Environment provides all theMotif header filesheader filesMotifMotif 2.1 header files.
# Motif UIL Library (libUil)Motif UIL librarylibraryMotif UILlibrary<Filename>libUil<Default Para Font><Filename>libUil<Default Para Font>


The Motif User Interface Language (UIL) is a specification language for
describing the initial state of a Motif application's user interface.

Include theheader filesMotif UIL libraryMotif UIL libraryheader file<Filename>UilDef.h<Default Para Font>header files<Filename>Uil.Def.h<Default Para Font>uil/UilDef.hheader file to access UIL.
# Motif Resource Manager Library (libMrm)Motif resource manager librarylibraryMotif resource managerlibrary<Filename>libMrm<Default Para Font><Filename>libMrm<Default Para Font> library


The Motif Resource Manager (MRM) creates widgets based on definitions
contained in User Interface Definition (UID) files created by the UIL compiler.
MRM interprets the output of the UIL compiler and generates the appropriate
argument lists for widget creation functions. UselibMrmto access the Motif
Resource Manager.

Include theMotif resource manager header file<Filename>MrmPublic.h<Default Para Font> header fileheader files<Filename>MrmPublic.h<Default Para Font>Mrm/MrmPublic.hheader files to accesslibMrmin your
application.
# Usability Enhancementsusability enhancementsenhancementsusability


Motif 2.1 contains minor enhancements
to enable better usability by OPEN LOOK and Microsoft Windows
users. The usability enhancements include:

Enabling button two on a three-button mouse to be used to extend the
current selection. This functionality is equivalent to theOPEN LOOKmouse functionalitymouse functionality, OPEN LOOKOPEN LOOK
ADJUST mouse button.

Enablingtab navigationnavigation, tabTab to be used to move through a group ofPushButtonwidgets
and gadgets,ArrowButtonwidgets and gadgets, andDrawnButtonwidgets.

Enabling button 3 to activate aCascadeButtonmenu.

Providing three new resources (pathMode, fileFilterStyle,anddirTextLabelString) for the<Filename>XmFileSelectionBox<Default Para Font> widget resourcesresources<Filename>XmFileSelectionBox<Default Para Font> widgetwidget<Filename>XmFileSelectionBox<Default Para Font>XmFileSelectionBoxwidget, which
gives it a new look and feel. See theCommon Desktop Environment:
Programmer's Overviewfor details about the newXmFileSelectionBoxresources.

Enabling interoperability with Microsoft Windows and OPEN LOOK by
providing multiple key bindings for Motif virtual keys.

Each of the preceding enhancements can be controlled by a resource: either a
widget resource (forXmFileSelectionBox) or an application-wide resource
(all other cases). The default values for this resource provide behavior and an
API that is identical to that of Motif 1.2. For information on these
enhancements and resources, see theXmDisplay(3x)andXmFileSelectionBox(3x)man pages.
# Visual EnhancementsMotif visual enhancementsvisual enhancements, Motifenhancements, visual Motif


Common Desktop Environment changes the default Motif look in the
following ways:

RadioBoxfill color is changed to show state more clearly.

RadioBoxshape is changed from diamond to circular.

A check glyph is added to theCheckBoxto show state more clearly.

CascadeButtonsand menu items are changed to have an etched-in border
when active.

Thumb is removed from the read-only Scale to distinguish it from the Scale.

Default shadow thickness is changed to 1 pixel.

Default highlight thickness is changed to 1 pixel.

DefaultPushButtonvisual draws the highlight inside the button's default
shadow.

An application-wide resource can control each of these enhancements. The
default Motif 2.1 values for these resources provide behavior and an API that is identical
to that of Motif 1.2.

For information on these enhancements, see theXmDisplay(3),XmPushButton(3),XmPushButtonGadget(3),XmToggleButton(3),XmToggleButtonGadget(3), andXmScale(3) man pages.
# Text Field and Arrow Button Widget (DtSpinBox)text field and arrow button widgetwidgettext field and arrow buttonwidgetarrow button and text fieldwidget<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font><Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font> widget


Use theDtSpinBoxforcycle widgetwidgetcyclecycling through a list of text items or incrementing and
decrementing a numeric entry.DtSpinBoxis a subclass of theXmManagerclass and is used to display a text field and two arrows.

TheDtSpinBoxwidget is a user interface control used toincrement/decrement widgetwidgetincrement/decrementdecrement/increment widgetincrement and
decrement an arbitrary text or numeric field. You can use it, for example, to
cycle through the months of the year or days of the month.shows
examples of theDtSpinBoxwidget.
# Examples of the DtSpinBox widget<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font> widget, illustration

# Library and Header Filesheader file<Filename>Dt/SpinBox.h<Default Para Font><Filename>Dt/SpinBox.h<Default Para Font> header filelibrary<Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font><Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font> library


TheDtSpinBoxwidget is in thewidget<Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font> librarylibDtWidgetlibrary. The header file isDt/SpinBox.h.
# Demo Programwidgetdemo programdemo programwidgets


A demo containing an example of theDtSpinBoxwidget is in/usr/dt/examples/dtwidget/controls.c.
# Moving to XmSimpleSpinBoxcompatibilityMotif 2.1 <Filename>XmSimpleSpinBox<Default Para Font><Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>, compatibility with Motif 2.1


To use the Motif 2.1DtSimpleSpinBoxwidget, change theDtnames for the class, types, and
creation routines toXm, and changeSpinBoxtoSimpleSpinBox. For example, change all occurrences ofDtSpinBoxtoXmSimpleSpinBoxin your code. Alternatively, you can compile
your existing code with`-DDT_USE_XM_SSPINBOX`.
This information is supplied in case you choose to
revise your CDE 1.0 application to use the Motif 2.1 widget.
# Convenience Functionsconvenience functions<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font> widget<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>convenience functions


lists the convenience functions for theDtSpinBoxwidget. See theDtSpinBox(3) man page for more information.
# DtSpinBox Convenience Functions


`Function`

`Description`

DtCreateSpinBox()

Creates a SpinBox widget.

DtSpinBoxAddItem()

Adds an item into aDtSpinBoxwidget at a
specified location.

DtSpinBoxDeletePos()

Deletes a specified item from aDtSpinBoxwidget.

DtSpinBoxSetItem()

Sets the current item in aDtSpinBoxwidget.
# Classes<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>classesclasses<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>


DtSpinBoxWidgetinherits behavior and resources from theCore,Composite,Constraint, andXmManagerclasses.

The class pointer isdtSpinBoxWidgetClass.

The class name isDtSpinBoxWidget.

DtSpinBoxWidgetdoes not support subclassing.
# Resourcesresources<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font><Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>resources


TheDtSpinBoxwidget defines the following set of widget resources.lists the class, type, default, and access for each resource.

DtNarrowLayoutspecifies the style and position of theDtSpinBoxarrows.

DtNarrowSensitivityspecifies the sensitivity of the arrows in theDtSpinBox.

DtNspinBoxChildTypespecifies the style of theDtSpinBox.

DtNdecimalPointsspecifies the position of the decimal point within the
integer value when the child type is numeric.

DtNincrementValuespecifies the amount to increment or decrement the
position when the child type is numeric.

DtNinitialDelayspecifies the amount of time in milliseconds before the
arrow buttons begin to spin continuously.

DtNnumValuesspecifies the number of items in theDtNvalueslist when
the child type is a string.

DtNvaluessupplies the list of strings to cycle through when the child type
resource is a string.

DtNmaximumValuespecifies the upper bound on theDtSpinBoxrange
when the child type is numeric.

DtNminimumValuespecifies the lower bound on theDtSpinBoxrange
when the child type is numeric.

DtNmodifyVerifyCallbackis called just before theDtSpinBoxposition
changes. The application can use this callback to implement new
application-related logic, including setting a new position, spinning to, or
canceling the impending action.

DtNpositionhas a different value based on the child type resource. When
the child type is a string,DtNpositionis the index into theDtNvalueslist
for the current item. When the child type is numeric,DtNpositionis the
integer value of theDtSpinBoxthat falls within the maximum and
minimum value range.

DtNrepeatDelayis the number of milliseconds between repeated calls to
theDtNvalueChangedCallbackwhile the user is spinning theDtSpinBox.

DtNvalueChangedCallbackis called whenever the value of theDtNpositionresource is changed through the use of the spinner arrows.

See theDtSpinBox(3) man page for more information.
# DtSpinBoxWidgetResources


`Name`

`Class`

`Type`

`Default`

`Access`

DtNarrowLayout

DtCArrowLayout

unsigned char

DtARROWS_END

CSG

DtNarrowSensitivity

DtCArrowSensitivity

unsigned char

DtARROWS_SENSITIVE

CSG

DtNspinBoxChildType

DtCSpinBoxChildType

unsigned char

DtSTRING

CG

DtNdecimalPoints

DtCDecimalPoints

short

0

CSG

DtNincrementValue

DtCIncrementValue

int

1

CSG

DtNinitialDelay

DtCInitialDelay

unsigned int

250 ms

CSG

DtNnumValues

DtCNumValues

int

0

CSG

DtNvalues

DtCValues

XmStringTable

NULL

CSG

DtNmaximumValue

DtCMaximumValue

int

10

CSG

DtNminimumValue

DtCMinimumValue

int

0

CSG

DtNmodifyVerifyCallback

DtCCallback

XtCallbackList

NULL

C

DtNposition

DtCPosition

int

0

CSG

DtNrepeatDelay

DtCRepeatDelay

unsigned int

200 ms

CSG

DtNvalueChangedCallback

DtCCallback

XtCallbackList

NULL

C
# Callback Structures<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>callback structurescallback structures<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>


The callback structure follows and is described in.typedef struct {
 int`reason`;
 XEvent`*event`;
 Widget`widget`;
 Boolean`doit`;
 int`position`;
 XmString`value`;
 Boolean`crossed_boundary`;
} DtSpinBoxCallbackStruct;
# DtSpinBox Callbacks


`Callback`

`Description`

`reason`

Use this callback for three possible reasons. For the first call
to the callback at the beginning of a spin, or for a single
activation of the spin arrows,DtCR_OKis the reason. If theDtSpinBoxis being continuously spun, the reason isDtCR_SPIN_NEXTorDtCR_SPIN_PRIOR, depending on
the arrow that is spinning.

`event`

A pointer to the event that caused this callback to be
invoked. It can beNULLwhen theDtSpinBoxis
continuously spinning.

`widget`

The widget identifier for the text widget that is affected by
the spin.

`doit`

Sets this value only when thecall_datacomes from theDtNmodifyVerifyCallback. For a modifyVerify callback,
the setting of this field by an application determines
whether the action that initiated the callback should be
performed. When this field is set toFalse, the action is not
performed.

`position`

The new value of theDtNpositionresource that results
from the spin.

`value`

The newXmStringvalue displayed in the Text widget that
results from the spin. This string must be copied if it is used
beyond the scope of thecall_datastructure.

`crossed_boundary`

This Boolean is True when the spinbox cycles, and/orDtNspinBoxChildTypeofXmSTRINGwraps from the first
item to the last or the last item to the first. When theDtNspinBoxChildTypeisXmNUMERIC, the boundary is
crossed when theDtSpinBoxcycles from the maximum
value to the minimum value or vice versa.
# Example of DtSpinBox Widget<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>example codecode example<Filename>DtSpinBox<Default Para Font>


The following example shows how to create and use aDtSpinBoxwidget. You
can find this code as part of thecontrols.cdemo in the/usr/dt/examples/dtwidgetdirectory./*
 * Example code for SpinBox
 */

#include &lt;Dt/SpinBox.h>

static char *spinValueStrings[] = {
 &ldquo;alpha&rdquo;, &ldquo;beta&rdquo;, &ldquo;gamma&rdquo;, &ldquo;delta&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;epsilon&rdquo;, &ldquo;zeta&rdquo;, &ldquo;eta&rdquo;, &ldquo;theta&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;iota&rdquo;, &ldquo;kappa&rdquo;, &ldquo;lambda&rdquo;, &ldquo;mu&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;nu&rdquo;, &ldquo;xi&rdquo;, &ldquo;omicron&rdquo;, &ldquo;pi&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;rho&rdquo;, &ldquo;sigma&rdquo;, &ldquo;tau&rdquo;, &ldquo;upsilon&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;phi&rdquo;, &ldquo;chi&rdquo;, &ldquo;psi&rdquo;, &ldquo;omega&rdquo;
};

static void ModifyVerifyCb(Widget, XtPointer, XtPointer);

static void CreateSpinBoxes(Widget parent)
{
    Widget titleLabel, spinBox;
    XmString *valueXmstrings;
    int numValueStrings;
    XmString labelString;
    Arg args[20];
    int i, n;

    /* Create value compound strings */

    numValueStrings = XtNumber(spinValueStrings);
 valueXmstrings = (XmString *)XtMalloc(numValueStrings
 sizeof(XmString*));
 for (i = 0; i &lt; numValueStrings; i++) {
  valueXmstrings[i] =
   XmStringCreateLocalized(spinValueStrings[i]);
    }

    /* Create title label */

    labelString = XmStringCreateLocalized(&ldquo;SpinBox Widget&rdquo;);
    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], XmNlabelString, labelString); n++;
    titleLabel = XmCreateLabel(parent, &ldquo;title&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(titleLabel);
    XmStringFree(labelString);

 /*
 * Create a SpinBox containing string values.
 */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNvalues, valueXmstrings); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNnumValues, numValueStrings); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNcolumns, 10); n++;
    spinBox = DtCreateSpinBox(parent, &ldquo;spinBox1&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(spinBox);

    /*
  * Create a SpinBox containing numeric values to 3 decimal places.
  * Position the arrows on either side of the displayed value.
  */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNspinBoxChildType, DtNUMERIC); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNminimumValue, 1000); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNmaximumValue, 100000); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNincrementValue,1000); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNdecimalPoints,3); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNposition,1000); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNarrowLayout,DtARROWS_SPLIT); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNcolumns, 10); n++;
    spinBox = DtCreateSpinBox(parent, &ldquo;spinBox2&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(spinBox);

    /*
* Create a SpinBox containing numeric values to 2 decimal places.
* Position the arrows on the left of the displayed value.
* Disallow alternate user changes by adding a modify/verify
 callback.
    */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNspinBoxChildType, DtNUMERIC); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNminimumValue, 1500); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNmaximumValue, 60500); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNincrementValue,1500); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNdecimalPoints,2); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNposition,7500); n++
 XtSetArg(args[n], DtNarrowLayout,DtARROWS_FLAT_BEGINNING); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNcolumns, 10); n++;
    spinBox = DtCreateSpinBox(parent, &ldquo;spinBox3&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(spinBox);

    XtAddCallback(spinBox, DtNmodifyVerifyCallback, ModifyVerifyCb,
 NULL);

 /*
 * Create a SpinBox containing string values.
 * Position the arrows on the left of the display value
 */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNvalues, valueXmstrings); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNnumValues, numValueStrings); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNarrowLayout, DtARROWS_BEGINNING); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNcolumns, 10); n++;
    spinBox = DtCreateSpinBox(parent, &ldquo;spinBox4&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(spinBox);

   /*
   * Create a SpinBox containing numeric values to 3 decimal places.
   * Position the arrows on the right of the displayed value.
   */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNspinBoxChildType, DtNUMERIC); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNminimumValue, 1000); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNmaximumValue, 100000); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNincrementValue,1000); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNdecimalPoints,3); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNposition,1000); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNarrowLayout, DtARROWS_FLAT_END); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNcolumns, 10); n++;
    spinBox = DtCreateSpinBox(parent, &ldquo;spinBox5&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(spinBox);

    /*
     * Free value strings, SpinBox has taken a copy.
     */

    for (i = 0; i &lt; numValueStrings; i++) {
  XmStringFree(valueXmstrings[i]);
    }
    XtFree((char*)valueXmstrings);

}

 /*
 * modify/verify callback.
 *
  * Allow/disallow alternate user changes
  */

static void ModifyVerifyCb(Widget w, XtPointer cd, XtPointer cb)
{
    DtSpinBoxCallbackStruct *scb= (DtSpinBoxCallbackStruct*)cb;
    static Boolean allowChange = True;

    scb->doit = allowChange;

    if (allowChange == False) {
 printf(&ldquo;DtSpinBox: DtNmodifyVerifyCallback.
Change disallowed.\n&rdquo;);
 XBell(XtDisplay(w), 0);
    }

    allowChange = (allowChange == True) ? False: True;
}
# Text Field and List Box Widget (DtComboBox)text field and list box widgetlist box and text field widgetwidgettext field and list boxwidgetlist box and text fieldwidget<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font><Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font> widget


Use theDtComboBoxwidget to display a list and the current selection from the
list. You can use this widget for display only, or as a selectable control.

TheDtComboBoxwidget is a combination of a text field and a list widget that
provides a list of valid choices for the text field. Selecting an item from this list
automatically fills in the text field with that list item.shows
examples of aDtComboBoxwidget.
# Examples of text field and list box widget (DtComboBox)<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>illustrationillustration<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>

# Library and Header Filesheader files<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font><Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>header file<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>librarylibrary<Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font><Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font> library


TheDtComboBoxwidget is in thelibDtWidgetlibrary. The header file isDt/ComboBox.h.
# Demo Programdemo program<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font><Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>demo program


A demo containing an example of theDtComboBoxwidget is in/usr/dt/examples/dtwidget/controls.c.
# Moving to XmComboBoxcompatibility<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font><Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>compatibility with Motif 2.1<Filename>XmComboBox<Default Para Font>, compatibility with <Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>


To use the Motif 2.1XmComboBoxwidget, change theDtnames for
the class, type, and creation routines toXm. For example, change all
occurrences ofDtComboBoxtoXmComboBoxin your code. Alternatively, you can compile
your existing code with`-DDT_USE_XM_COMBOBOX`.
This information is supplied in case you choose to
revise your CDE 1.0 application to use the Motif 2.1 widget.
# Convenience Functionsconvenience functions<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font><Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>convenience functions


TheDtComboBoxwidget provides the following convenience functions,
described in more detail in.

See theDtComboBox(3) man page for more information.
# DtComboBox Widget Convenience Functions


`Function`

`Description`

DtCreateComboBox()

Creates aDtComboBoxwidget.

DtComboBoxAddItem()

Adds an item into aDtComboBoxwidget at a
specified position.

DtComboBoxDeletePos()

Deletes a specified item from aDtComboBoxwidget.

DtComboBoxSetItem()

Selects an item in theXmListof aDtComboBoxwidget and makes it the first visible item in the list.

DtComboBoxSelectItem()

Selects an item in theXmListof theDtComboBoxwidget.

DtComboBoxis a subclass of theXmManagerclass that is used to displayXmListorXmScrolledList.
# Classesclasses<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font><Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>classes


DtComboBoxinherits behavior and resources fromCore,Composite,Constraints, andXmManagerclasses.

The class pointer isdtComboBoxWidgetClass.

The class name isDtComboBoxWidget.

DtComboBoxWidgetdoes not support subclassing.
# Resources<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>resourcesresources<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>


DtComboBoxprovides the following resources.shows the class, type,
default, and access for these resources.

DtNmarginHeightspecifies the number of pixels added between the top
and bottom of the text widget and the start of the shadow.

DtNmarginWidthspecifies the number of pixels added between the right
and left sides of the text widget and the start of the shadow.

DtNselectedItemis passed through to theXmListto set theXmNselectedItemCountandXmNselectedItemsas the single item in
theDtNitemsthat matches this specifiedXmStringin the list.

DtNselectedPositionis passed through to theXmListto set theXmNselectedItemCountandXmNselectedItemsas the single item at
this specified position in the list.

DtNselectionCallbackis issued when an item is selected from theDtComboBoxwidget list.

DtNcomboBoxTypedetermines the style type of theDtComboBox.

The list widget ID is accessible using theXtNameToWidget()function. The
resources of these widgets can be set. See theDtComboBox(3) man page for
more information.

The codes in the access column show if you can:

Set the resource at creation time (C)

Set by usingXtSetValues(S)

Retrieve by usingXtGetValues(G)
# DtComboBox Widget Resources


`Name`

`Class`

`Type`

`Default`

`Access`

DtNmarginHeight

DtCMarginHeight

Dimension

2

CSG

DtNmarginWidth

DtCMarginWidth

Dimension

2

CSG

DtNselectedItem

DtCSelectedItem

XmString

Dimension

CSG

DtNselectedPosition

DtCSelectedPosition

int

Dimension

CSG

DtNselectionCallback

DtCCallback

XtCallbackList

XmString

C

DtNcomboBoxType

DtCComboBoxType

unsigned char

int

CG
# Callback Structures<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>callback structurescallback structures<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>


The callback structure follows and is described in.typedef struct {
 int`reason`;
 XEvent`*event`;
 XmString`item_or_text`;
 int`item_position`;
} DtComboBoxCallbackStruct;
# DtComboBox Callback Structures


`Structure`

`Description`

`reason`

The only reason to issue this callback isXmCR_SELECT.

`event`

A pointer to the event that caused this callback to be invoked.
It can be NULL.

`item_or_text`

The contents of the text widget at the time the event invoked
the callback. This data is only valid within the scope of thecall_datastructure, so it must be copied when it is used
outside of this scope.

`item_position`

The new value of theDtNpositionresource in theDtComboBoxlist. If the value is 0, the user entered a value in
theXmTextFieldwidget.
# Example of DtComboBox Widget<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>example codecode example<Filename>DtComboBox<Default Para Font>


The following example shows how to create and use aDtComboBoxwidget.
You can find this code as part of thecontrols.cdemo in the/usr/dt/examples/dtwidgetdirectory./*
 * Example code for DtComboBox
 */

#include &lt;Dt/ComboBox.h>

static char *comboValueStrings[] = {
 &ldquo;alpha&rdquo;, &ldquo;beta&rdquo;, &ldquo;gamma&rdquo;, &ldquo;delta&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;epsilon&rdquo;, &ldquo;zeta&rdquo;, &ldquo;eta&rdquo;, &ldquo;theta&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;iota&rdquo;, &ldquo;kappa&rdquo;, &ldquo;lambda&rdquo;, &ldquo;mu&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;nu&rdquo;, &ldquo;xi&rdquo;, &ldquo;omicron&rdquo;, &ldquo;pi&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;rho&rdquo;, &ldquo;sigma&rdquo;, &ldquo;tau&rdquo;, &ldquo;upsilon&rdquo;,
 &ldquo;phi&rdquo;, &ldquo;chi&rdquo;, &ldquo;psi&rdquo;, &ldquo;omega&rdquo;
};

static char *colorStrings[] = { &ldquo;Red&rdquo;, &ldquo;Yellow&rdquo;, &ldquo;Green&rdquo;, &ldquo;Brown&rdquo;,
&ldquo;Blue&rdquo; };

static void CreateComboBoxes(Widget parent)
{
    Widget titleLabel, comboBox, list;
    XmString *valueXmstrings, *colorXmstrings;
    int numValueStrings, numColorStrings;
    XmString labelString, xmString;
    Arg args[20];
    int i, n;

    /* Create value compound strings */

    numValueStrings = XtNumber(comboValueStrings);
    valueXmstrings = (XmString *)XtMalloc(numValueStrings *
  sizeof(XmString*));
    for (i = 0; i &lt; numValueStrings; i++) {
  valueXmstrings[i] =

  XmStringCreateLocalized(comboValueStrings[i]);
    }

    /* Create color compound strings */

 numColorStrings = XtNumber(colorStrings);
 colorXmstrings = (XmString *)XtMalloc(numColorStrings *
 sizeof(XmString*));
  for (i = 0; i &lt; numColorStrings; i++) {
  colorXmstrings[i] =

  XmStringCreateLocalized(colorStrings[i]);
    }

    /* Create title label */

    labelString = XmStringCreateLocalized(&ldquo;ComboBox Widget&rdquo;);
    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], XmNlabelString, labelString); n++;
    titleLabel = XmCreateLabel(parent, &ldquo;title&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(titleLabel);
    XmStringFree(labelString);


    /*
     * Create an editable ComboBox containing the color strings.
     * Get the widget id of the drop down list, add some greek
     * letter names to it, and make more items visible.
     */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNcomboBoxType, DtDROP_DOWN_COMBO_BOX); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNitems, colorXmstrings); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNitemCount, numColorStrings); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNvisibleItemCount, 5); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNcolumns, 10); n++;
    comboBox = DtCreateComboBox(parent, &ldquo;comboBox1&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(comboBox);

    list = XtNameToWidget(comboBox, &ldquo;*List&rdquo;);
    XmListAddItems(list, valueXmstrings, 10, 0);
    XtVaSetValues(list, XmNvisibleItemCount, 10, NULL);


    /*
     * Create an editable ComboBox with no entries.
     * Get the widget id of the drop down list, add some greek
     * letter names to it and select the third item in the list.
     */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNcomboBoxType, DtDROP_DOWN_COMBO_BOX); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNorientation, DtLEFT); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNcolumns, 10); n++;
    comboBox = DtCreateComboBox(parent, &ldquo;comboBox2&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(comboBox);

    list = XtNameToWidget(comboBox, &ldquo;*List&rdquo;);
    XmListAddItems(list, valueXmstrings, 7, 0);
    XtVaSetValues(list, XmNvisibleItemCount, 7, NULL);
    XtVaSetValues(comboBox, DtNselectedPosition, 3, NULL);


    /*
     * Create a non-editable ComboBox containing some greek letter

   names.
     * Position the arrow on the left.
     * Select the `gamma' item in the list.
     */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNorientation, DtLEFT); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNitems, valueXmstrings); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNitemCount, numValueStrings); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNvisibleItemCount, 8); n++;
    comboBox = DtCreateComboBox(parent, &ldquo;comboBox3&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(comboBox);

    xmString = XmStringCreateLocalized(&ldquo;gamma&rdquo;);
    XtVaSetValues(comboBox, DtNselectedItem, xmString, NULL);
    XmStringFree(xmString);

    /*
     * Create a non-editable ComboBox with no entries.
     * Position the arrow on the right.
     * Add the greek letter names to the list and select the fourth
   item.
     */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNorientation, DtRIGHT); n++;
    XtSetArg(args[n], DtNvisibleItemCount, 8); n++;
    comboBox = DtCreateComboBox(parent, &ldquo;comboBox4&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(comboBox);

 for (i = 0; i &lt; numValueStrings; i++) {
  DtComboBoxAddItem(comboBox, valueXmstrings[i],
  0, True);
    }
    XtVaSetValues(comboBox, DtNselectedPosition, 4, NULL);

    /*
     * Free value and color strings, ComboBox has taken a copy.
     */

 for (i = 0; i &lt; numValueStrings; i++) {
  XmStringFree(valueXmstrings[i]);
    }
    XtFree((char*)valueXmstrings);

 for (i = 0; i &lt; numColorStrings; i++) {
  XmStringFree(colorXmstrings[i]);
    }
    XtFree((char*)colorXmstrings);
}
# Menu Button Widget (DtMenuButton)<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font> widgetwidget<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>menu button widgetwidgetmenu buttonpop-up menu button widgetwidgetpop-up menu


Use theDtMenuButtonwidget to provide menu-cascading functionality
outside of a menu pane.

DtMenuButtonwidget is a command widget that complements the menucascading menu widgetwidgetcascading menucascading functionality of anXmCascadeButtonwidget. As a complement toXmCascadeButtonwidget, it can only be instantiated outside aMenuBar,Pulldown, orPopup(useXmCascadeButtonwidget inside aMenuPane.)shows examples of aDtMenuButtonwidget.
# Examples of menu button widget (DtMenuButton)<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>illustrationillustration<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>

# Library and Header Files<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>header fileheader file<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>library<Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font><Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font> library


TheDtMenuButtonwidget is in thelibDtWidgetlibrary. The header file isDt/MenuButton.h.
# Demo Program<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>demo programdemo program<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>


A demo containing an example of theDtMenuButtonwidget is in/usr/dt/examples/dtwidget/controls.c.
# Convenience Functions<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>convenience functionsconvenience functions<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>


DtCreateMenuButton()is a convenience function that creates a Common
Desktop Environment widget.

DtMenuButtonwidget is a subclass ofXmLabelclass. Visually,DtMenuButtonwidget has a label string and a menu glyph. The menu glyph
always appears on the right end of the widget and, by default, is a downward
pointing arrow.

DtMenuButtonwidget has an implicitly created submenu attached to it. The
submenu is a pop-up menu and has thisDtMenuButtonwidget as its parent.
The name of the implicitly created submenu is obtained by prefixingsubmenu_to the name of thisDtMenuButtonwidget. You can obtain the
widget ID of the submenu by setting anXtGetValuesonDtNsubMenuIdresource of thisDtMenuButtonwidget. The implicitly created submenu must
not be destroyed by the user of this widget.

The submenu can be popped up by pressing the menu post button (seeXmNmenuPostresource ofXmRowColumn) anywhere on theDtMenuButtonwidget or by pressing the Motif Cancel key (usually Escape).
# Classes<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>classesclasses<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>


DtMenuButtonWidgetinherits behavior and resources fromCore,XmPrimitive, andXmLabelclasses.

The class pointer isdtMenuButtonWidgetClass.

The class name isDtMenuButtonWidget.

DtMenuButtonWidgetdoes not support subclassing.
# Resources<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>resourcesresources<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>


DtMenuButtonWidgetprovides the following resources.shows the
class, type, default, and access for these resources.

DtNcascadingCallbackspecifies the list of callbacks that are called before
the attached submenu is displayed.

DtNcascadePixmapspecifies the pixmap that is displayed as the menu
glyph. If no pixmap is specified, a downward pointing arrow is displayed.

DtNsubMenuIdspecifies the widget ID of the pop-up menu pane to be
associated with thisDtMenuButtonwidget. You must create the pop-up
menu pane with thisDtMenuButtonas its parent. You cannot specify this
resource when the widget is created because the submenu is automatically
destroyed by this widget when the resource is set.

See theDtMenuButtonWidget(3) man page for more information.

The codes in the access column show if you can:

Set the resource at creation time (C)

Set by usingXtSetValues(S)

Retrieve by usingXtGetValues(G)
# DtMenuButtonWidget Resources


`Name`

`Class`

`Type`

`Default`

`Access`

DtNcascadingCallback

DtCCallback

XtCallbackList

NULL

C

DtNcascadePixmap

DtCPixmap

Pixmap

XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP

CSG

DtNsubMenuId

DtCMenuWidget

Widget

NULL

SG
# Callback Structures<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>callback structurescallback structures<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>


The callback structure follows and is described in.typedef struct {
 int`reason`;
 XEvent`*event`;
} XmAnyCallbackStruct;
# DtMenuButtonWidget Callback Structures


`Structure`

`Description`

`reason`

Returns reason why the callback was invoked.

`event`

Points to theXEventthat triggered the callback orNULLif the
callback was not triggered by an XEvent.
# Example of DtMenuButton Widget<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>example codecode example<Filename>DtMenuButton<Default Para Font>


The following example shows how to create and use aDtMenuButtonwidget.
You can find this code as part of thecontrols.cdemo in the/usr/dt/examples/dtwidgetdirectory./*
 * Example code for DtMenuButton
 */

#include Dt/DtMenuButton.h

/* MenuButton custom glyph */

#define menu_glyph_width 16
#define menu_glyph_height 16
static unsigned char menu_glyph_bits[] = {
 0xe0, 0x03, 0x98, 0x0f, 0x84, 0x1f, 0x82, 0x3f, 0x82, 0x3f, 0x81,

 0x7f,
 0x81, 0x7f, 0xff, 0x7f, 0xff, 0x40, 0xff, 0x40, 0xfe, 0x20, 0xfe,

 0x20,
 0xfc, 0x10, 0xf8, 0x0c, 0xe0, 0x03, 0x00, 0x00};

static void CreateMenuButtons(Widget parent)
{
    Widget menuButton, submenu, titleLabel, button;
    Pixmap cascadePixmap;
    Pixel fg, bg;
    Cardinal depth;
    XmString labelString;
    Arg args[20];
    int i, n;

    /* Create title label */

    labelString = XmStringCreateLocalized(&ldquo;MenuButton Widget&rdquo;);
    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], XmNlabelString, labelString); n++;
    titleLabel = XmCreateLabel(parent, &ldquo;title&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(titleLabel);
    XmStringFree(labelString);

    /*
     * Create a MenuButton.
     * Add push buttons to the built-in popup menu.
     */

    labelString = XmStringCreateLocalized(&ldquo;Action&rdquo;);
    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], XmNlabelString, labelString); n++;
 menuButton = DtCreateMenuButton(parent, &ldquo;menuButton1&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(menuButton);
    XmStringFree(labelString);

    XtVaGetValues(menuButton, DtNsubMenuId, &amp;submenu, NULL);
    button = XmCreatePushButton(submenu, &ldquo;Push&rdquo;, NULL, 0);
    XtManageChild(button);
    button = XmCreatePushButton(submenu, &ldquo;Pull&rdquo;, NULL, 0);
    XtManageChild(button);
    button = XmCreatePushButton(submenu, &ldquo;Turn&rdquo;, NULL, 0);
    XtManageChild(button);

    /*
     * Create a MenuButton.
     * Replace the built-in popup menu with a tear-off menu.
     * Add a custom pixmap in the colors of the MenuButton.
     */

    labelString = XmStringCreateLocalized(&ldquo;Movement&rdquo;);
    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[n], XmNlabelString, labelString); n++;
 menuButton = DtCreateMenuButton(parent, &ldquo;menuButton1&rdquo;, args, n);
    XtManageChild(menuButton);
    XmStringFree(labelString);

    /* Create a tear-off menu */

    n = 0;
    XtSetArg(args[0], XmNtearOffModel, XmTEAR_OFF_ENABLED); n++;
    submenu = XmCreatePopupMenu(menuButton, &ldquo;submenu&rdquo;, args, n);
    button = XmCreatePushButton(submenu, &ldquo;Run&rdquo;, NULL, 0);
    XtManageChild(button);
    button = XmCreatePushButton(submenu, &ldquo;Jump&rdquo;, NULL, 0);
    XtManageChild(button);
    button = XmCreatePushButton(submenu, &ldquo;Stop&rdquo;, NULL, 0);
    XtManageChild(button);

    XtVaSetValues(menuButton, DtNsubMenuId, submenu, NULL);

    /* Create a pixmap using the menu button's colors and depth */

    XtVaGetValues(menuButton,
   XmNforeground, &amp;fg,
   XmNbackground, &amp;bg,
   XmNdepth, &amp;depth,
   NULL);

    cascadePixmap = XCreatePixmapFromBitmapData(XtDisplay
  (menuButton),DefaultRootWindow(XtDisplay
  (menuButton)),
  (char*)menu_glyph_bits,
  menu_glyph_width, menu_glyph_height,
  fg, bg, depth);
    XtVaSetValues(menuButton, DtNcascadePixmap, cascadePixmap,

 NULL);
}
# Text Editor Widget (DtEditor)widgettext editortext editor widgetwidget<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font><Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font> widget


The Common Desktop Environment text editing system consists of two
components:

The text editor client,dtpad, which provides editing services through
graphical, action, and ToolTalk interfaces.

The editor widget,DtEditor(3), which provides a programmatic interface
for the following editing services:

Cut and paste

Search and replace

Simple formatting

Spell checking (for 8-bit locales)

Undo previous edit

Enhanced I/O handling capabilities that support input and output of
ASCII text, multibyte text, and buffers of data

Support for reading and writing files directly

Although the Motif text widget also provides a programmatic interface,
applications that use the system-wide uniform editor should use theDtEditor(3) widget. The Common Desktop Environment Text Editor and
Mailer use the editor widget. Use this widget in the following circumstances:

You want the functionality, such as spell checking, undo, and find/change,
that is provided by theDtEditor(3) widget.

You do not want to write the code so that users may read and write data to
and from a file.

Your program does not need to examine every character typed or every
cursor movement made by a user.

This section describes the text editor widget,DtEditor(3).

The Editor Widget library provides support for creating and editing text files.
It enables applications running in the desktop environment to have a
consistent method of editing text data. TheDtEditor(3) widget consists of a
scrolled edit window for text, an optional status line, and dialogs for finding
and changing text, spell checking, and specifying formatting options. The text
editor widget includes a set of convenience functions for programmatically
controlling the widget.
# Library and Header Files<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>header fileheader files<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font><Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font> librarylibrary<Filename>libDtWidget<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorwidget is in thelibDtWidgetlibrary. The header file isDt/Editor.h.
# Demo Program<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>demo programdemo program<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


A demo containing an example of theDtEditorwidget is in/usr/dt/examples/dtwidget/editor.c.
# Classes<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>classesclasses<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


Widget subclassing is not supported for theDtEditorwidget class.

DtEditorinherits behavior and resources fromCore,Composite,Constraints,XmManager, andXmFormclasses.

The class name for the editor widget isDtEditorWidget.

The class pointer isdtEditorWidgetClass.
# Convenience Functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>convenience functionsconvenience functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorconvenience functions are described in the following tables.
# Life Cycle Functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>life cycle functionslife cycle functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorlife cycle functions are described in.
# DtEditor Life Cycle Functions


`Function`

`Description`

DtCreateEditor

Creates a new instance of aDtEditorwidget
and its children.

DtEditorReset

Restores aDtEditorwidget to its initial state.
# Input/Output Functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>input/output functionsinput/output functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorinput/output functions are described in.
# DtEditor Input/Output Functions


`Function`

`Description`

DtEditorAppend

Appends content data to the end of an editor
widget.

DtEditorAppendFromFile

Appends the contents of a file to the end of
an editor widget.

DtEditorGetContents

Retrieves the entire contents of an editor
widget.

DtEditorInsert

Inserts content data at the current insert
position.

DtEditorInsertFromFile

Inserts the contents of a file at the current
insert position.

DtEditorReplace

Replaces a portion of text with the supplied
data.

DtEditorReplaceFromFile

Replaces a portion of text with the contents of
a file.

DtEditorSaveContentsToFile

Saves the entire contents to a file.

DtEditorSetContents

Loads content data into an editor widget,
replacing the entire contents of the widget.

DtEditorSetContentsFromFile

Loads the contents of a file into an editor
widget, replacing the entire contents of the
widget.
# Selection Functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>selection functionsselection functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorselection functions are described in.
# DtEditor Selection Functions


`Function`

`Description`

DtEditorClearSelection

Replaces the currently selected contents with
blanks.

DtEditorCopyToClipboard

Copies the currently selected contents to the
clipboard.

DtEditorCutToClipboard

Removes the currently selected contents,
placing then on the clipboard.

DtEditorDeleteSelection

Removes the currently selected contents.

DtEditorDeselect

Deselects any selected contents.

DtEditorPasteFromClipboard

Pastes the contents of the clipboard into an
editor widget, replacing any currently
selected contents.

DtEditorSelectAll

Selects the entire contents of an editor widget.
# Format Functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>format functionsformat functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorformat functions are described in.
# DtEditor Format Functions


`Function`

`Description`

DtEditorFormat

Formats all or part of the contents of an editor
widget.

DtEditorInvokeFormatDialog

Displays the format dialog box that enables the
user to specify format settings for margins and
justification style and to perform formatting
operations.
# Find and Change Functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>find and change functionsfind and change functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorfind and change functions are described in.
# DtEditArea Find and Change Functions


`Function`

`Description`

DtEditorChange

Changes one or all occurrences of a
string.

DtEditorFind

Finds the next occurrence of a string.

DtEditorInvokeFindChangeDialog

Displays the dialog box that enables the
user to search for, and optionally change,
a string.

DtEditorInvokeSpellDialog

Displays a dialog box with a list of
misspelled words in the current contents.
# Auxiliary Functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>auxiliary functionsauxiliary functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorauxiliary functions are described in.
# DtEditor Auxiliary Functions


`Function`

`Description`

DtEditorCheckForUnsavedChanges

Reports whether the contents of an editor
widget have been altered since the last
time they were retrieved or saved.

DtEditorDisableRedisplay

Prevents redisplay of an editor widget
even though its visual attributes have
changed.

DtEditorEnableRedisplay

Forces the visual update of an editor
widget.

DtEditorGetInsertPosition

Returns the insertion cursor position of
the editor widget.

DtEditorGetLastPosition

Returns the position of the last character
in the edit window.

DtEditorGetMessageTextFieldID

Retrieves the widget ID of the text field
widget used to display application
messages.

DtEditorGetSizeHints

Retrieves sizing information from an
editor widget.

DtEditorGoToLine

Moves the insertion cursor to the
specified line.

DtEditorSetInsertionPosition

Sets the position of the insertion cursor.

DtEditorTraverseToEditor

Sets keyboard traversal to the edit
window of an editor widget.

DtEditorUndoEdit

Undoes the last edit made by a user.
# Resources<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>resourcesresources<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorwidget provides the following set of resources.

DtNautoShowCursorPositionensures that the text visible in the scrolled
edit window contains the insert cursor when set to True. If the insert cursor
changes, the contents of the editor may scroll to bring the insertion point
into the window.

DtNblinkRatespecifies the blink rate of the text cursor in milliseconds.
The time it takes to blink the insertion cursor on and off is twice the blink
rate. When the blink rate is set to zero, the cursor does not blink. The value
must not be negative.

DtNbuttonFontListspecifies the font list used for the buttons that are
displayed in the dialog boxes ofDtEditor.

DtNcolumnsspecifies the initial width of the editor as an integer
number of characters. The value must be greater than zero.

DtNcursorPositionspecifies the location of the current insert cursor in
the editor where the current insert cursor is placed. Position is determined
by the number of characters from the beginning of the text. The first
character position is 0.

DtNcursorPositionVisiblemarks the insert cursor position by a
blinking text cursor when the Boolean value is True.

DtNdialogTitlespecifies the title for all dialogs displayed by DtEditor.
These include the dialogs for word search and replace, misspelled words,
and format settings.

DtNeditableindicates that the user can edit the data when set to True.
Prohibits the user from editing data when set to False.

DtNlabelFontListspecifies the font list used forDtEditorlabels (the
labels are displayed in the status line andDtEditordialog boxes).

DtNoverstrikewhen set to False, characters typed into the editor widget
inserts at the position of the cursor (the default). When set to True,
characters typed into the editor widget replace the characters that directly
follow the insertion cursor. When the end of the line is reached, characters
are appended to the end of the line. If the status line is visible, theDtNoverstrikeIndicatorLabelis displayed in the status line wheneverDtNoverstrikeis True.

DtNrowsspecifies the initial height of the editor measured in character
heights. The value must be greater than zero.

DtNscrollHorizontaladds a scroll bar that enables the user to scroll
horizontally through text when the Boolean value is True.

DtNscrollLeftSideputs a vertical scroll bar on the left side of the
scrolled edit window when the Boolean value is True.

DtNshowStatusLinedisplays a status line below the text window when
set to True. The status line contains a field that displays the current line
number of the insert cursor, total number of lines in the document, and
whether the editor is in overstrike mode. Users can type a line number in
the line number display to go directly to that line.

The status line also includes a MotifXmTextField(3) widget for displaying
messages supplied by an application. This field is a convenient place for an
application to display status and feedback about the document being edited.
The ID of the text field is retrieved usingDtEditorGetMessageTextFieldID(3). A message is displayed by setting
theXmNvalueorXmNvalueWcsresource of this widget. If the text field is not
needed, you can unmanage it by callingXtUnmanageWidget(3) with its ID.

DtNspellFilterspecifies the filter used to identify spelling errors. The
functionDtEditorInvokeSpellDialog(3) filters the contents of an
editor through the filter specified byDtNspellFilter. The filter specified
should accept a file name and produce a list of misspelled and unrecognized
words in this file onstdout. The default filter isspell(1).

DtNtextBackgroundspecifies the background for the edit window.

DtNtextDeselectCallbackspecifies a function called whenever no text
is selected within the edit area. The reason sent by the callback isDtEDITOR_TEXT_DESELECT.

DtNtextFontListspecifies the font list used for theDtEditoredit
window and its text fields. The text fields are displayed in the status line
andDtEditordialog boxes.

DtNtextForegroundspecifies the foreground for the edit window.

DtNtextSelectCallbackspecifies a function called whenever text is
selected within the edit area. The reason sent by the callback isDtEDITOR_TEXT_SELECT.

DtNtextTranslationsspecifies translations that are added to the edit
window. Translations specified with this resource override any duplicate
translations defined for the edit window. See theDtEditor(3) man page
for a list of translations provided byDtEditor.

DtNtopCharacterdisplays the line that contains the position of text at the
top of the scrolled edit window. The line is displayed at the top of the
widget without shifting the text left or right. Position is determined by the
number of characters from the beginning of the text. The first character
position is zero.

XGetValues(3) forDtNtopCharacterreturns the position of the first
character in the line that is displayed at the top of the widget.

DtNwordWrapbreaks lines at word breaks with soft carriage returns when
they reach the right edge of the window. Note that word wrap affects only
the visual appearance of the contents of an editor widget. The line breaks
(soft carriage returns) are not physically inserted into the text. The editor
does support substituting hard carriage returns when the contents of the
widget are retrieved or saved to a file. See theDtEditorGetContents(3)
andDtEditorSaveContentsToFile(3) man pages for more information.

lists the class, type, default, and access for each resource. You can
also set the resource values for the inherited classes to set attributes for this
widget. To reference a resource by name or class in an.Xdefaultsfile,
remove theDtNorDtCprefix and use the remaining letters. To specify one of
the defined values for a resource in an.Xdefaultsfile, remove theDtprefix
and use the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include
any underscores between words).

The codes in the access column show if you can:

Set the resource at creation time (C)

Set by usingXtSetValues(S)

Retrieve by usingXtGetValues(G)

See theDtEditor(3) man page for more information.
# DtEditor Resources


`Name`

`Class`

`Type`

`Default`

`Access`

DtNautoShowCursorPosition

DtCAutoShowCursorPosition

Boolean

True

CSG

DtNblinkRate

DtCBlinkRate

int

500

CSG

DtNbuttonFontList

DtCFontList

XmFontList

Dynamic

CSG

DtNcolumns

DtCColumns

XmNcolumns

Dynamic

CSG

DtNcursorPosition

DtCCursorPosition

XmTextPosition

0

CSG

DtNcursorPositionVisible

DtCCursorPositionVisible

Boolean

True

CSG

DtNdialogTitle

DtCDialogTitle

XmString

NULL

CSG

DtNeditable

DtCEditable

Boolean

True

CSG

DtNlabelFontList

DtCFontList

XmFontList

Dynamic

CSG

DtNmaxLength

DtCMaxLength

int

Largest
integer

CSG

DtNoverstrike

DtCOverstrike

Boolean

False

CSG

DtNrows

DtCRows

XmNrows

Dynamic

CSG

DtNscrollHorizontal

DtCScroll

Boolean

True

CG

DtNscrollLeftSide

DtCScrollSide

Boolean

Dynamic

CG

DtNscrollTopSide

DtCScrollSide

Boolean

False

CG

DtNscrollVertical

DtCScroll

Boolean

True

CG

DtNshowStatusLine

DtCShowStatusLine

Boolean

False

CSG

DtNspellFilter

DtCspellFilter

char *

Spell

CSG

DtNtextBackground

DtCBackground

Pixel

Dynamic

CSG

DtNtextDeselectCallback

DtCCallback

XtCallbackList

NULL

C

DtNtextFontList

DtCFontList

XmFontList

Dynamic

CSG

DtNtextForeground

DtCForeground

Pixel

Dynamic

CSG

DtNtextTranslations

DtCTranslations

XtTranslations

NULL

CS

DtNtextSelectCallback

DtCCallback

XtCallbackList

NULL

C

DtNtopCharacter

DtCTextPosition

XmTextPosition

0

CSG

DtNwordWrap

DtCWordWrap

Boolean

True

CSG
# Inherited Resources<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>inherited resourcesinherited resources<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font><Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


DtEditorinherits behavior and resources from the following superclasses:

XmForm

XmManager

Composite

Core

Refer to the appropriate man page for more information.
# Localization Resources


The following list describes a set of widget resources that are designed for
localization of theDtEditorwidget and its dialog boxes. Default values for
these resources depend on the locale.

DtNcenterToggleLabelspecifies the label for the center alignment toggle
button in the Format Settings dialog box. The default value in the C locale is
Center.

DtNchangeAllButtonLabelspecifies the label for the button in the
Find/Change dialog box that changes all occurrences of the Find string in
the document. The default value in the C locale is Change All.

DtNchangeButtonLabelspecifies the label for the button in the
Find/Change dialog box that changes the next occurrence of the find string
in the document. The default value in the C locale is Change.

DtNchangeFieldLabelspecifies the label for the field in the Find/Change
dialog box where the user specifies the replacement string. The default
value in the C locale is Change To.

DtNcurrentLineLabelspecifies the label for the current line number field
in the status line. The default value in the C locale is Line.

DtNfindButtonLabelspecifies the label for the button in the
Find/Change dialog box that finds the next occurrence of the find string in
the document. The default value in the C locale is Find.

DtNfindChangeDialogTitlespecifies the title for the Find/Change
dialog box. IfDtNdialogTitleis non-null, it is added to the front of this
resource to form the title. The default value in the C locale is Find/Change.

DtNfindFieldLabelspecifies the label for the field in the Find/Change
dialog box where the user specifies the search string. The default value in
the C locale is Find.

DtNformatAllButtonLabelspecifies the label for the button in the
Format Settings dialog box that formats the complete document. The default
value in the C locale is All.

DtNformatParagraphButtonLabelspecifies the label for the button in
the Format Settings dialog box that formats the paragraph containing the
insertion cursor. The default value in the C locale is Paragraph.

DtNformatSettingsDialogTitlespecifies the title for the Format
Settings dialog box. If DtNdialogTitle is non-null, it is added to the front of
this resource to form the title. The default value in the C locale is Format
Settings.

DtNinformationDialogTitlespecifies the title for the Information
dialog box that is used to present feedback and general information to the
user. IfDtNdialogTitleis non-null, it is added to the front of this
resource to form the title. The default value in the C locale is Information.

DtNjustifyToggleLabelspecifies the label for the justify alignment
toggle button in the Format Settings dialog box. The default value in the C
locale is Justify.

DtNleftAlignToggleLabelspecifies the label for the left alignment
toggle button in the Format Settings dialog box. The default value in the C
locale is Left Align.

DtNleftMarginFieldLabelspecifies the label for the left margin value
field in the Format Settings dialog box. The default value in the C locale is
Left Margin.

DtNmisspelledListLabelspecifies the label for the list of unrecognized
and misspelled words in the Spell dialog box. The default value in the C
locale is Misspelled Words.

DtNoverstrikeLabelspecifies the label in the status line that shows that
the editor is in overstrike mode. The default value in the C locale is
Overstrike.

DtNrightAlignToggleLabelspecifies the label for the right alignment
toggle button in the Format Settings dialog box. The default value in the C
locale is Right Align.

DtNrightMarginFieldLabelspecifies the label for the right margin value
field in the Format Settings dialog box. The default value in the C locale is
Right Margin.

DtNspellDialogTitlespecifies the title for the Format Settings dialog
box. IfDtNdialogTitleis non-null, it is added to the front of this resource
to form the title. The default value in the C locale is Spell.

DtNtotalLineCountLabelspecifies the label for the display as part of the
status line that shows the total number of lines in the document. The default
value in the C locale is Total.

lists the class, type, default, and access for each of the localization
resources. The codes in the access column show if you can:

Set the resource at creation time (C)

Set by usingXtSetValues(S)

Retrieve by usingXtGetValues(G)

See theDtEditor(3) man page for more information.
# DtEditor Localization Resources


`Name`

`Class`

`Type`

`Default`

`Access`

DtNcenterToggleLabel

DtCCenterToggleLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNchangeAllButtonLabel

DtCChangeAllButtonLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNchangeButtonLabel

DtCChangeButtonLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNchangeFieldLabel

DtCChangeFieldLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNcurrentLineLabel

DtCCurrentLineLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNfindButtonLabel

DtCFindButtonLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNfindChangeDialogTitle

DtCFindChangeDialogTitle

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNfindFieldLabel

DtCFindFieldLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNformatAllButtonLabel

DtCFormatAllButtonLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNformatParagraphButtonLabel

DtCFormatParagraphButtonLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNformatSettingsDialogTitle

DtCFormatSettingsDialogTitle

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNinformationDialogTitle

DtCInformationDialogTitle

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNjustifyToggleLabel

DtCJustifyToggleLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNleftAlignToggleLabel

DtCLeftAlignToggleLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNleftMarginFieldLabel

DtCLeftMarginFieldLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNmisspelledListLabel

DtCMisspelledListLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNoverstrikeLabel

DtCOverstrikeLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNrightAlignToggleLabel

DtCRightAlignToggleLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNrightMarginFieldLabel

DtCRightMarginFieldLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNspellDialogTitle

DtCSpellDialogTitle

XmString

Dynamic

CSG

DtNtotalLineCountLabel

DtCTotalLineCountLabel

XmString

Dynamic

CSG
# Callback Functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>callback functionscallback functions<Filename>DtEditor<Default Para Font>


TheDtEditorwidget supports three callback functions:

DtEditorNHelpCallback

DtNtextSelectCallback

DtNtextDeselectCallback

If you want to present help information about the editor widget and its dialog
boxes, set theXmNhelpCallbackresource and use the reason field passed as
part ofDtEditorHelpCallbackStructto set the contents of the Help dialog
box. A pointer to the following structure is passed toXmNHelpCallback. The
callback structure and is described in.typedef struct {
 int`reason`;
 XEvent    *`event`;
} DtEditorHelpCallbackStruct;
# DtEditorHelp Callback Structure


`Structure`

`Description`

`reason`

The reason why the callback was invoked. Refer to theDtEditor(3)
man page for a list of reasons.

`event`

A pointer to the event that invoked this callback. The value can be
NULL.

Use theDtNtextSelectCallbackandDtNtextDeselectCallbackresources when you want to enable and disable menu items and commands
depending on whether text is selected.DtNtextSelectCallbackspecifies a
function that is called whenever some text is selected in the edit window.DtNtextDeselectCallbackspecifies a function that is called whenever no
text is selected within the edit window. The reasons sent by the callbacks areDtEDITOR_TEXT_SELECTandDtEDITOR_TEXT_DESELECT.