
# Integrating with Calendar


The Calendar application program interface (API) provides a programmatic
way to access and manage calendar data in a networked environment. The API
supports inserting, deleting, and modifying of entries as well as browse and
find capabilities. It also supports calendar administration functions.

The Calendar API is an implementation of the X.400 Application Programming
Interface Association's (XAPIA) Calendaring and Scheduling API (CSA API).CSA APICSA API defines a set of high-level functions so that applications that are
calendar enabled can access the varied features of the calendaring and
scheduling service. For more information about the latest XAPIA Specification,
contact the X.400 API Association, 800 El Camino Real, Mountain View,
California 94043.

This chapter describes the Calendar API in these sections:
























# Library and Header Files


To use the Calendar API, you need to link to the<Filename>libDtCalendar<Default Para Font> librarylibrary<Filename>libDtCalendar<Default Para Font>libcsalibrary. The header
file isheader file<Filename>Dt/xcsa.h<Default Para Font><Filename>Dt.Xcsa.h<Default Para Font> header fileCalendarheader filecsa/csa.h.
# Demo ProgramCalendardemo programdemo programCalendar


A demo program containing an example of how to use the Calendar API is in/usr/dt/examples/dtcalendar.
# Using the Calendar API

# How to Integrate with Calendar


The Calendar API provides a way to access and manage calendar data in a
networked environment.

Includecsa/csa.hin your application.Calendarheader fileheader file, Calendar

Use the calendar API to incorporate the calendar operations you want in
your application.

Link withlibcsa.CalendarlibrarylibraryCalendar
# Overview of the CSA APICSA API, overview


The CSA interface enables a common interface to a calendaring and scheduling
service. For each CSA implementation, the view and capabilities presented by
CSA must be mapped to the view and capabilities of the underlying
calendaring service. The interface is designed to be independent of the actual
calendaring and scheduling implementation. The interface is also designed to
be independent of the operating system and underlying hardware used by the
calendaring service.

The number of function calls provided is minimal. A single set of functions
manage multiple types of calendar entries.
# C Naming ConventionsCSAC naming conventionsnaming conventions, CC naming conventionsCalendarnaming conventions


The identifier for an element of the C interface is derived from the generic
name of the element and its associated data type, as specified in. The
generic name is prefixed with the character string in the second column of the
table; alphabetic characters are converted to the case in the third column.
# Derivation of C Naming Conventions


`Element Type`

`Prefix`

`Case`

Data type

CSA_

Lower

Data value

CSA_

Upper

Function

csa_

Lower

Function argument

none

Lower

Function result

none

Lower

Constant

CSA_

Upper

Error

CSA_E_

Upper

Macro

CSA_

Upper

Reserved for extension sets

CSA_XS_

Any

Reserved for extensions

CSA_X_

Any

Reserved for use by implementors

CSAP

Any

Reserved for vendor function extensions

csa_x

Lower

Structure Tag

CSA_TAG_

Upper

Elements with the prefixCSAP(any case) are reserved for internal proprietary
use by implementors of the CSA service. They are not intended for direct use
by programs written using the CSA interface.

The prefixesCSA_XS_,CSA_X_(in either uppercase or lowercase), andcsa_xare reserved for extensions of the interface by vendors or groups. The
specification defines these interface extensions as extensions to the base set of
functions.

For constant data values, an additional string is usually appended toCSA_to
indicate the data structure or function for the constant data value.
# Functional ArchitectureCalendararchitecture


This section describes the functional architecture of services supporting the
CSA API. It provides an abstract implementation model, an abstract data
model, and a functional overview.
# Implementation ModelCSAimplementation modelimplementation model, CSA


The abstract implementation model is provided as a reference aid to help you
understand the scope of the CSA API.

The CSA interface is defined between a calendar-enabled application and a
calendaring service. All functions in this interface are designed to be
independent of the calendaring service; however, the API does allow protocol-
specific extensions to the common functions to be invoked through the use of
extensions. Seefor more information. The relationship of the CSA
interface to a calendar-enabled application and the calendar service is shown in.
# Positioning of the Calendaring and Scheduling API


The model of the CSA interface can be divided into three components:
administration, calendar management, and entry management. These
components are shown in.
# Components of the Calendaring and Scheduling APICalendar APIcomponents


Access to the calendaring service is established through a calendaring session.
The session provides for a valid connection to the calendaring service and
assists in ensuring the integrity of the calendaring information maintained by
the service. A calendar-enabled application logs on to an individual calendar
within the calendaring service to establish a valid session or connection. The
session is terminated by the calendar-enabled application logging off from the
calendar.

The calendaring service maintains one or more calendars. The calendar service
provides some level of administration support for these calendars. A calendar-
enabled application might access a list of the calendars maintained by a
particular calendar service. In addition, the calendar service might provide
support for the archive and restore of calendar information into some
implementation-specific, persistent format. Where a calendar service provides
support for maintaining more than one calendar, support functions are defined
for creating and deleting calendars. In addition, functions are provided to
support administering the characteristics of the calendar.

The majority of the functions within the CSA interface manage individual
calendar entries. Calendar entries may be either events, to dos, or memos.
Entries can be added, deleted, updated, and read from a particular calendar. A
calendar-enabled application can also add reminders to calendar entries.
# Data ModelCalendar APIdata model


The CSA interface is an access method to a conceptual back-end store of
calendaring information that is maintained by a calendaring service. A
common data model is helpful in visualizing the components of the
calendaring information maintained by a calendaring service.
# Calendar EntitiesCalendarentitiesentities, Calendar2


The data model is based on the concept of a calendar entity. The calendar is
represented by a named collection of administrative calendar attributes and
calendar entries. A calendar is owned by an individual user. The user could
represent a person, a group of people, or a resource.

The calendar attributes are a set of named values that may represent common,
implementation-specific, or application-specific administrative characteristics
about the calendar. For example, time zone, name, owner, and access rights to
the calendar can be specified in individual calendar attributes.

The calendar entries are the primary components of a calendar. The three
classes of calendar entries follow:

Events

To Dos

Memos

Calendar entries are represented by a uniquely named collection of entry
attributes. The entry attributes are a set of named values that represent
common, implementation-specific, or application-specific characteristics of the
calendar entry. For example, an event might contain a start and end date and
time, a description, and a subtype. A to do might contain the date it was
created, the due date, a priority, and a status. A memo might contain the date
it was created and a text content or description.

The calendar attributes and entry attributes consist of a name, type, and value
tuple. Common attributes defined by the specification can be extended.
Implementations can define implementation-specific attributes. In addition,
some implementations may provide the capability for applications to define
application-specific attributes. The CDE implementation supports application
defined attributes.
# Access RightsCalendaraccess rightsaccess rights, Calendar


The accessibility of a calendar to an individual user can be controlled by the
access rights given that user. Access rights are paired with a calendar user.
CSA allows users to be an individual, group, or resource. The CDE
implementation only supports individual users. The access rights are
maintained in an access list. The access list is a particular calendar attribute.
The access rights are individually controlled and can be accumulated to define
a range of accessibility of a user to a calendar and its entries. The access rights
can also be specified in terms of the following access roles:

The owner of a calendar

The organizer of a particular entry within the calendar

The sponsor of a particular entry within the calendar

The owner role enables the user to do anything to the calendar or calendar
entries that the owner of the calendar can do, including deleting the calendar;
viewing, inserting, and changing calendar attributes; adding and deleting
calendar entries; and viewing, inserting, and changing entry attributes.

The organizer role enables the user to delete the entry or view and change
entry attributes of those calendar entries for which the user is specified as the
organizer. The organizer defaults to the calendar user who created the entry.

The sponsor role enables the user to delete the entry or view and change entry
attributes for those calendar entries for which the user is specified as the
sponsor. The sponsor is the calendar user who effectively owns the calendar
entry.

In addition to these roles, an access right can be set to limit access to free time
searches; view, insert, or change calendar attributes; or view, insert or change
entries, depending on whether they are classified as public, confidential, or
private. The entry classification acts as a secondary filter on accessibility.
# Functional Overview


The CSA interface supports three principle types of tasks:

Administration

Calendar management

Entry management
# AdministrationCalendaradministrationadministration, Calendar


Most of the CSA function calls occur within a calendar session. The calendar
session is a logical connection between the calendar-enabled application and a
particular calendar maintained by the calendaring service. A session is
established with a call to thecsa_logon()function and terminated with a
call to thecsa_logoff()function. The context of the session is represented
by a session handle. This handle provides a token in each of the CSA functions
to distinguish one calendar session from another. Thecsa_logon()function
also authenticates the user to the calendaring service and sets session
attributes. Currently, there is no support for sharing calendar sessions among
applications.

Thecsa_list_calendars()function is used to list the names of the
calendars managed by a particular calendar service.

Thecsa_query_configuration()function is used to list information about
the current calendar service configuration. This information can include the
character set, line terminator characters for text strings, default service name,
default authorization user identifier for the specified calendar service, an
indicator of whether a password is needed to authenticate the user identifier,
an indicator of whether the common extensions for user interface dialogs is
supported, and the CSA specification supported by the implementation.

The CSA implementation provides support for managing the memory for
calendar objects and attributes that are returned by the service. Thecsa_free()function is used to free up this memory after it is no longer
needed. It is the responsibility of the application to free up the memory
allocated and managed by the calendar service.
# Calendar ManagementCalendarmanagementmanagement, Calendar


The CSA interface provides several calendar management functions. The CDE
implementation supports multiple calendars per calendar service; the calendar-
enabled application can add or delete calendars. Thecsa_delete_calendar()function is used to delete calendars. Thecsa_add_calendar()function is used to add new calendars to the service.

The application can also list, read, and update calendar attributes using thecsa_list_calendar_attributes(),csa_read_calendar_attributes(), andcsa_update_calendar_attributes()functions. The application can
register callback functions for receiving notification of a calendar logon,
calendar deletion, update of calendar attributes, addition of a new calendar
entry, deletion of a calendar entry, and update of a calendar entry. The callback
function is only registered for the duration of the calendar session. In any case,
this information may be invaluable for some calendar administration
applications.
# Entry ManagementCalendarentry managemententry management, Calendar


The CSA interface has a robust set of functions for managing calendar entries.
The context of a calendar entry in a calendar session is maintained by the entry
handle. This handle provides a token in the CSA functions to distinguish one
calendar entry from another. The entry handle is returned by thecsa_add_entry()andcsa_list_entries()functions. The entry handle is
valid for the duration of the calendar session or until the entry is deleted or
updated. The entry handle becomes invalid when it is freed by a call tocsa_free().

Thecsa_add_entry()function is used to add new entries to a calendar. Thecsa_delete_entry()function is used to delete an entry in a calendar. Thecsa_list_entries()function is used to enumerate the calendar entries
that match a particular set of entry attribute criteria. Thecsa_read_entry_attributes()function is used to get either all or a set of
entry attribute values associated with a particular calendar entry.

To add an entry to a calendar, a calendar-enabled application must first
establish a session with the calendaring service using thecsa_logon()function. Then the application invokes thecsa_add_entry()function to
specify the new entry. The calendar-enabled application is responsible for
composing the attributes used in thecsa_add_entry()function. The session
is terminated using thecsa_logoff()function.

The entry attributes in an individual calendar entry can be enumerated with
thecsa_list_entry_attributes()function. The values of one or more
attributes can be read with thecsa_read_entry_attributes()function.
Individual entry attributes can be modified with thecsa_update_entry_attributes()function.

Memory allocated by the CSA implementation for retrieved calendar
information is released by passing the associated memory pointers to thecsa_free()function.

Some calendar entries are associated with a recurring activity. Thecsa_list_entry_sequence()function can be used to enumerate the other
recurring calendar entries. This function returns a list of entry handles for the
recurring entries.

The CDE calendar server provides support for alarms or reminders to be
associated with calendar entries. Reminders can take the form of audio
reminders from the terminal speaker, flashing reminders presented on the
terminal screen, mail reminders sent to the calendar user, or pop-up reminders
presented on the terminal screen. The calendar service manages the reminders,
but it is the responsibility of the calendar application to retrieve the reminder
information and act on it. Thecsa_read_next_reminder()function is used
to read the information about the next scheduled type of reminder.
# ExtensionsCSAextensionsextensions, CSA


The major data structures and functions defined in the CSA specification can
be extended methodically through extensions. Extensions are used to add
additional fields to data structures and additional parameters to a function call.
A standard generic data structure has been defined for these extensions. It
consists of an item code, identifying the extension; an item data, holding the
length of extension data or the data itself; an item reference, pointing to where
the extension value is stored orNULLif there is no related item storage; and
flags for the extension.

Extensions that are additional parameters to a function call may be input or
output. That is, the extension may be passed as input parameters from the
application to the CSA service or passed as output parameters from CSA
service to the application. If an extension is an input parameter, the application
allocates memory for the extension structure and any other structures
associated with the extension. If an extension is an output parameter, the CSA
service allocates the storage for the extension result, if necessary. In this case,
the application must free the allocated storage with acsa_free()call.

If an extension that is not supported is requested,CSA_E_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION_EXTis returned.
# Data StructuresCalendardata structuresdata structures, Calendar


lists the CSA data structures. See the relevant man page for
complete information.
# CSA Data Structures


`Data Type Name`

`Description`

Access List

List of access rights structures for calendar users

Attendee List

List of attendee structures

Attribute

Attribute structure

Attribute Reference

Attribute reference structure

Boolean

A value that indicates logical true or false

Buffer

Pointer to a data item

Calendar User

Calendar user structure

Callback Data
Structures

Callback data structures

Date and Time

Date and time designation

Date and Time List

List of date and time values

Date and Time Range

Range of date and time

Entry Handle

Handle for the calendar entry

Enumerated

Data type containing a value from an enumeration

Extension

Extension structure

Flags

Container for bit masks

Free Time

Free time structure

Opaque Data

Opaque data structure

Reminder

Reminder structure

Reminder Reference

Reminder reference structure

Return Code

Return value indicating either that a function
succeeded or why it failed

Service Reference

Service reference structure

Session Handle

Handle for the calendar session

String

Character string pointer

Time Duration

Time duration
# Calendar AttributesCalendarattributesattributes, Calendar


lists the calendar attributes supported in the CDE implementation.
See the relevant man page for more information. The list of calendar attributes
is extensible through the extended naming convention.
# CSA Calendar Attributes


`Attribute Name`

`Description`

`Read-Only`

Access List

Access list attribute

No

Calendar Name

Calendar name attribute

Yes

Calendar Owner

Calendar owner attribute

Yes

Calendar Size

Calendar size attribute (computed)

Yes

Character Set

Character set attribute

No

Date Created

Calendar creation date attribute

Yes

Number Entries

Number of entries attribute
(computed)

Yes

Product Identifier

Product identifier attribute

Yes

Time Zone

Time zone attribute

No

Version

Product version attribute

Yes

The following section provides additional information about the calendar
attributes listed in.

Access List

When a new calendar is added and if no access list is specified, the default
access list contains a special userworldand its corresponding access right isCSA_VIEW_PUBLIC_ENTRIES, which provides access right to list and read
calendar entries with public classification. The special userworldincludes all
users.

Calendar Name

The calendar name is specified when the calendar is created usingcsa_add_calendar().It becomes read-only and cannot be changed after
the calendar is created.

Calendar Owner

The calendar owner is set to the user who is running the application that
callscsa_add_calendar()to create the calendar. It becomes read-only
and cannot be changed after the calendar is created.

Character Set

The CDE common locale name should be used to set this value.
# CDE Calendar Attributes


The followings are CDE-defined calendar attributes:

Server Version

This read-only attribute shows the version number of the server managing
the calendar. This attribute is aCSA_VALUE_UINT32type of attribute.

Data Version

This read-only attribute shows the data version of the calendar. This
attribute is aCSA_VALUE_UINT32type of attribute.
# Entry AttributesCalendarentry attributesentry attributes, Calendar


lists the entry attributes supported in the CDE implementation. See
the relevant man page for more information. The list of entry attributes is
extensible through the extended naming convention.
# CSA Entry Attributes


`Attribute Name`

`Description`

`Read-Only`

Audio Reminder

Audio reminder attribute

No

Classification

Classification attribute

No

Date Completed

Date completed attribute

No

Date Created

Entry creation date attribute

Yes

Description

Description attribute

No

Due Date

Due date attribute

No

End Date

End date attribute

No

Exception Dates

Exception dates attribute

No

Flashing Reminder

Flashing reminder attribute

No

Last Update

Last update attribute

Yes

Mail Reminder

Mail reminder attribute

No

Number
Recurrences

Number of recurrences
attribute (computed)

Yes

Organizer

Organizer attribute

Yes

Popup Reminder

Pop-up reminder attribute

No

Priority

Priority attribute

No

Recurrence Rule

Recurrence rule attribute

No

Reference
Identifier

Reference identifier
attribute

Yes

Sponsor

Sponsor attribute

No

Start Date

Start date attribute

No

Status

Status attribute

No

Subtype

Subtype attribute

No

Summary

Summary attribute

No

Transparency

Time transparency or
blocking attribute

No

Type

Type attribute

Yes

The following section provides additional information about the entry
attributes listed in.

Organizer

The organizer of an entry is set to the user who is running the application
that callscsa_add_entry()to add the entry to the calendar. It becomes
read-only and cannot be changed after the entry is added.

Reference Identifier

The reference identifier of an entry is a string that contains a unique
identifier of the entry within the calendar as well as the name and location
of the calendar. The format isn:calendar@locationwherenis a
number that uniquely identifies the entry within the calendar,calendaris
the name of the calendar, andlocationis the name of the machine where
the calendar is stored.

Status

The CDE implementation defines the following additional status values:

CSA_X_DT_STATUS_ACTIVE

CSA_X_DT_STATUS_DELETE_PENDING

CSA_X_DT_STATUS_ADD_PENDING

CSA_X_DT_STATUS_COMMITTED

CSA_X_DT_STATUS_CANCELLED

Type

The value becomes read-only and cannot be changed after the entry is
added. The CDE implementation defines the following additional type
value:

CSA_X_DT_TYPE_OTHER
# CDE Entry Attributes


The following are CDE-defined entry attributes:

Show Time

The value of this attribute indicates whether the start and end time of the
entry should be shown to the user. It can be modified usingcsa_update_entry_attributes(). This attribute is aCSA_VALUE_SINT32type of attribute.

Repeat Type

The frequency of recurrence of the entry, which indicates how often the
entry repeats. This is a read-only attribute and is derived from the entry
attributeRecurrence Rule.

This attribute is aCSA_VALUE_UINT32type of attribute.

The following values are defined:

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_ONETIME

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_DAILY

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_WEEKLY

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_BIWEEKLY

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_MONTHLY_BY_WEEKDAY

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_MONTHLY_BY_DATE

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_YEARLY

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_EVERY_NDAY

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_EVERY_NWEEK

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_EVERY_NMONTH

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_MON_TO_FRI

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_MONWEDFRI

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_TUETHUR

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_WEEKDAYCOMBO

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_OTHER

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_OTHER_WEEKLY

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_OTHER_MONTHLY

CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_OTHER_YEARLY

Repeat Times

This attribute shows the number of times an entry repeats. This is a read-
only attribute and is derived from the entry attributeRecurrence Rule.
This attribute is aCSA_VALUE_UINT32type of attribute.

Repeat Interval

This attribute tells how often an entry with repeat typesCSA_X_DT_REPEAT_EVERY_NDAY, CSA_X_DT_REPEAT_EVERY_NWEEK, orCSA_X_DT_REPEAT_EVERY_NMONTHrepeats. This is a read-only attribute,
and is derived from the entry attributeRecurrence Rule.For example,
if the value of this attribute is 3 and the repeat type isCSA_X_DT_REPEAT_EVERY_NWEEK, the entry repeats every three weeks.
This attribute is aCSA_VALUE_UINT32type of attribute.

Repeat Occurrence Number

If the entry's repeat type isCSA_X_DT_REPEAT_MONTHLY_BY_WEEKDAY,
this attribute tells in which week the entry repeats. This is a read-only
attribute and is derived from the entry attributeRecurrence Rule. This
attribute is aCSA_VALUE_SINT32type of attribute.

Sequence End Date

This entry attribute shows the end date of the sequence. This is a read-only
attribute and is derived from the entry attributeRecurrence Rule. This
attribute is aCSA_VALUE_DATE_TIMEtype of attribute.
# General Information about Functions


The following general information applies to all functions:

Character set restriction

The calendar attribute,CSA_CAL_ATTR_CHARACTER_SET, is used to store
the locale information of the calendar.

All data except textual description passed in the library must be in
ASCII format and the library supports single-byte as well as multibyte
character strings.

Type checking for attribute values is provided for the predefined attributes
only.

When a function takes both a session handle and an entry handle, the
session handle is always ignored in the CDE implementation.

Entry attributesCSA_ENTRY_ATTR_RECURRENCE_RULEandCSA_ENTRY_ATTR_EXCEPTION_DATESare used to specify recurrence
information of a calendar entry. Information in theCSA_ENTRY_ATTR_RECURRENCE_RULEattribute can be queried using the
following attributes:CSA_X_DT_ENTRY_ATTR_REPEAT_TYPE,CSA_X_DT_ENTRY_ATTR_REPEAT_TIMES,CSA_X_DT_ENTRY_ATTR_REPEAT_INTERVAL,CSA_X_DT_ENTRY_ATTR_REPEAT_OCCURRENCE_NUM, andCSA_X_DT_ENTRY_ATTR_SEQUENCE_END_DATE. These computed
attributes are read-only.

TheCSA_calendar_userdata structure specifies either a user or a
calendar. In the first case, for example, when specifying a user in an access
list, only theuser_namefield is used and all other fields are ignored. In the
latter case, for example, when specifying the calendar to log onto, only thecalendar_addressfield is used and all other fields are ignored. The
format iscalendar@locationwherecalendaris the name of the
calendar andlocationis the name of the machine where the calendar is
stored.

Attributes of value typeCSA_VALUE_ATTENDEE_LISTare not supported
andCSA_E_INVALID_ATTRIBUTE_VALUEwill be returned if they are
specified.

Although therepeat_countandsnooze_timefields in theCSA_reminderdata structure are stored in the calendar, the calendar
service does not interpret their values and the associated reminder will be
returned only once by the server.

The user interface extensionCSA_X_UI_ID_EXTis not supported.
# Administration FunctionsCalendaradministrative functionsadministrative functions, Calendar


This section contains descriptions for the administration functions supported
in the CDE implementation. See the relevant man page for more information.

Free &ndash; Frees memory allocated by the calendaring service.CSA_return_code
csa_free(
  CSA_buffer      memory
);

List Calendars &ndash; Lists the calendars supported by a calendar server.CSA_return_code
csa_list_calendars(
  CSA_service_reference   calendar_service,
  CSA_uint32              *number_names,
  CSA_calendar_user       **calendar_names,
  CSA_extension           *list_calendars_extensions
);

A host name where the server runs should be passed incalendar_server.

Logon &ndash; Logs on to the calendar service and establishes a session with a
calendar.CSA_return_code
csa_logon(
  CSA_service_reference  calendar_service,
  CSA_calendar_user      *user,
  CSA_string             password,
  CSA_string             character_set,
  CSA_string             required_csa_version,
  CSA_session_handle     *session,
  CSA_extension          *logon_extensions
);

Argumentscalendar_service, password, character_set,andrequired_csa_versionare not used.

Thecalendar_addressfield of theCSA_calendar_userstructure pointed to byuserspecifies the calendar to log onto. The
format iscalendar@locationwherecalendaris the name of the
calendar andlocationis the host name where the calendar is
stored.

The CDE-defined extensionCSA_X_DT_GET_USER_ACCESS_EXTis
supported. This extension can be used to get the access rights the
calling user has with respect to the calendar. The user's access rights
is returned in theitem_datafield of the extension structure.

Logoff &ndash; Terminates a session with a calendar.CSA_return_code
csa_logoff(
  CSA_session_handle     session,
  CSA-extension     *logoff_extensions
);

Query Configuration &ndash; Determines information about the installed CSA
configuration.CSA_return_code
csa_query_configuration(
        CSA_session_handle      session,
        CSA_enum                item,
        CSA_buffer              *reference,
        CSA_extension           *query_configuration_extensions
);

The following items are not supported by this implementation of
CDE:

CSA_CONFIG_CHARACTER_SET

CSA_CONFIG_LINE_TERM

CSA_CONFIG_VER_IMPLEM
# Calendar Management FunctionsCalendarmanagement functionsmanagement functions, Calendar


This section contains descriptions for the calendar management functions
supported in the CDE implementation. See the relevant man page for more
information.

Add calendar &ndash; Adds a calendar to the calendar service.CSA_return_code
csa_add_calendar(
        CSA_session_handle      session,
        CSA_calendar_user       *user,
        CSA_uint32              number_attributes,
        CSA_attribute           *calendar_attributes,
        CSA_extension           *add_calendar_extensions
);

The first argumentsessionis ignored.

Thecalendar_addressfield of theCSA_calendar_userstructure pointed to byuserspecifies the name and the location of
the calendar to be created. The format iscalendar@locationwherecalendaris the name of the calendar andlocationis the
host name where the calendar is to be stored; for example,my_calendar@my_host.

Call Callbacks &ndash; Forces the invocation of the callback functions associated
with the specified callback list(s).CSA_return_code
csa_call_callbacks(
  CSA_session_handle      session,
  CSA_flags      reason,
  CSA_extension      *call_callbacks_extensions
);

Delete Calendar &ndash; Deletes a calendar from the calendar service.CSA_return_code
csa_delete_calendar(
  CSA_session_handle      session,
  csa_extension      *delete_calendar_extensions
);

List Calendar Attributes &ndash; Lists the names of the calendar attributes
associated with a calendar.CSA_return_code
csa_list_calendar_attributes(
  CSA_session_handle      session,
  CSA_uint32      *number_names,
  CSA_attribute_reference **calendar_attributes_names,
  CSA_extension      *list_calendar_attributes_extensions
);

Read Calendar Attributes &ndash; Reads and returns the calendar attribute values
for a calendar.CSA_return_code
csa_read_calendar_attributes(
  CSA_session_handle      session,
  CSA_uint32              number_names,
  CSA_attribute_reference *attribute_names,
  CSA_uint32              *number_attributes,
  CSA_attribute           **calendar_attributes,
  CSA_extension      *read_calendar_attributes_extensions
);

Register Callback Functions &ndash; Registers the callback function to be invoked
with the specified type of updates in the calendar.CSA_return_code
csa_register_callback(
  CSA_session_handle     session,
  CSA_flags              reason,
  CSA_callback           callback,
  CSA_buffer             client_data,
  CSA_extension          *register_callback_extensions
);

Unregister Callback Functions &ndash; Unregisters the specified callback function.CSA_return_code
csa_unregister_callback(
  CSA_session_handle     session,
  CSA_flags              reason,
  CSA_callback           callback,
  CSA_buffer             client_data,
  CSA_extension          *unregister_callback_extensions
);

Update Calendar Attributes &ndash; Updates the calendar attribute values for a
calendar.CSA_return_code
csa_update_calendar_attributes(
  CSA_session_handle     session,
  CSA_uint32     number_attributes,
  CSA_attribute     *calendar_attributes,
  CSA_extension      *update_calendar_attributes_extensions
);
# Entry Management FunctionsCalendarentry management functionsentry management functions, Calendar


This section contains descriptions for the entry management functions
supported in the CDE implementation. See the relevant man page for more
information.

Add Entry &ndash; Adds an entry to the specified calendar.CSA_return_code
csa_add_entry(
  CSA_session_handle      session,
  CSA_uint32      number_attributes,
  CSA_attribute      *entry_attributes,
  CSA_entry_handle      *entry,
  CSA_extension      *add_entry_extensions
);

Delete Entry &ndash; Deletes an entry from the specified calendar.CSA_return_code
csa_delete_entry(
        CSA_session_handle      session,
        CSA_entry_handle        entry,
        CSA_enum                delete_scope,
        CSA_extension           *delete_entry_extensions
);

List Entries &ndash; Lists the calendar entries that match all the attribute search
criteria.CSA_return_code
csa_list_entries(
        CSA_session_handle      session,
        CSA_uint32              number_attributes,
        CSA_attribute           *entry_attributes,
        CSA_enum                *list_operators,
        CSA_uint32              *number_entries,
        CSA_entry_handle        **entries,
        CSA_extension           *list_entries_extensions
);

The following information details more about the operators
specified inlist_operators:

Only the operatorsCSA_MATCH_ANYandCSA_MATCH_EQUAL_TOare supported for the attribute value typesCSA_VALUE_REMINDER,CSA_VALUE_CALENDAR_USER, andCSA_VALUE_DATE_TIME_RANGE.

Only the operatorsCSA_MATCH_ANY,CSA_MATCH_EQUAL_TO,CSA_MATCH_NOT_EQUAL_TO, andCSA_MATCH_CONTAINare
supported for the attribute value typeCSA_VALUE_STRING. The
operatorCSA_MATCH_CONTAINonly applies toCSA_VALUE_STRINGtype of attributes.

Matching of attributes with the value typesCSA_VALUE_OPAQUE_DATA,CSA_VALUE_ACCESS_LIST,
CSA_VALUE_ATTENDEE_LIST,and,CSA_VALUE_DATE_TIME_LISTare not supported. The only
exception is the attributeCSA_ENTRY_ATTR_REFERENCE_IDENTIFIER. The operatorCSA_MATCH_EQUAL_TOis supported for this attribute.

List Entry Attributes &ndash; Lists the names of the entry attributes associated
with the specified entry.CSA_return_code
csa_list_entry_attributes(
  CSA_session_handle       session,
      CSA_entry_handle       entry,
  CSA_uint32       *number_names,
  CSA_attribute_reference       **entry_attribute_names,
  CSA_extension       *list_entry_attributes_extensions
);

List Entry Sequence &ndash; Lists the recurring calendar entries that are associated
with a calendar entry.CSA_return_code
csa_list_entry_sequence(
  CSA_session_handle      session,
  CSA_entry_handle      entry,
  CSA_date_time_range      time_range,
  CSA_uint32      *number_entries,
  CSA_entry_handle      **entry_list,
  CSA_extension      *list_entry_sequences_extensions
);

CSA_E_INVALID_PARAMETERis returned if the specified entry is a
one-time entry.

Read Entry Attributes &ndash; Reads and returns the calendar entry attribute
values for a specified entry.CSA_return_code
csa_read_entry_attributes(
       CSA_session_handle        session,
       CSA_entry_handle        entry,
       CSA_uint32        number_names,
       CSA_attribute_reference *attribute_names,
       CSA_uint32        *number_attributes,
       CSA_attribute        **entry_attributes,
       CSA_extension        *read_entry_attributes_extensions
);

Read Next Reminder &ndash; Reads the next reminder of the given type in the
specified calendar relative to a given time.CSA_return_code
csa_read_next_reminder(
  CSA_session_handle      session,
  CSA_uint32      number_names,
  CSA_attribute_reference *reminder_names,
  CSA_date_time      given_time,
  CSA_uint32      *number_reminders,
  CSA_remainder_reference **reminder_references,
  CSA_extension      *read_next_reminder_extensions
);

Update Entry Attributes &ndash; Updates the calendar entry attributes.CSA_return_code
csa_update_entry_attributes(
        CSA_session_handle        session,
        CSA_entry_handle        entry,
        CSA_enum        update_scope,
        CSA_boolean        update_propagation,
        CSA_uint32        number_attributes,
        CSA_attribute        *entry_attributes,
        CSA_entry_handle        *new_entry,
        CSA_extension        *update_entry_attributes_extensions
);

Update propagation is not supported; theupdate_propagationargument should be set toCSA_FALSE.