
# Reference Information


Click any of the topics listed below for help with that particular topic.










# dtterm (1X) Man Page















# See Also




X(1)

resize(1)

xset(1)

xterm(1)
# SYNOPSIS


dtterm[-options]
# DESCRIPTION


The`dtterm`client provides runtime support of legacy applications
written for ANSI X3.64-1979 and ISO 6429:1992(E) conformant character
terminals such as the DEC VT220.
# OPTIONS


The`dtterm`terminal emulator
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with
additional options all of which are listed below (if the option begins
with a `+' instead of a `-', the option is restored to its default value):

-132

Normally the DECCOLM escape sequence that switches between
80 and
132 column mode is ignored. This option causes the DECCOLM escape
sequence to be recognized, and thedttermwindow will resize
appropriately.c132

Associated resource:c132.

+132

This option causes the DECCOLM
escape sequence to be ignored. This is the
default behavior.c132

Associated resource:c132.

-aw

This option indicates that auto-wraparound
should be allowed. This
allows the cursor to automatically wrap to the beginning of the next
line when it is at the right-most position of a line and text is output.
This is the default behavior.

Associated resource:autoWrap.autoWrap

+aw

This option indicates that auto-wraparound should not be allowed.

Associated resource:autoWrap.autoWrap

-background`background_color`

This option specifies the background of the terminal window as well as the
default background used for the scroll bar and the X11 pointer cursor.
Under CDE, this option defaults to the primary
colorset select pixel or background pixel(see-bs. Without CDE, this option defaults to*background/*Backgroundwith an ultimate fallback color of black.

`background_color`describes the background color to use.

backgroundAssociated resource:background

-bd`border_color`

This option specifies the border color for all windows. The shell widget's
border
may not be visible when reparenting window managers such asdtwm(1X)andmwm(1X)are used. The default color is black.

`border_color`describes the border color to use.

borderColorAssociated resource:borderColor.

-bg`background_color`

This option is identical to-background.

background_colordescribes the background color to use.

backgroundAssociated resource:background.

-bordercolorborder_color

This option is identical to -bd above.

border_colorDescribes the border color to use

borderColorAssociated resource:borderColor.

-borderwidth`border_width`

This option specifies the border width of the shell widget's window.
This value may be overridden by reparenting window managers such asdtwm(1X)andmwm(1X). The default is 0.

`border_width`Specifies the width of the window border in pixels.

borderwidthAssociated resource:borderWidth.

-bs

This option specifies that the
terminal window should use the Motif select color instead of the background
color for the terminal window's background color. This is the default
behavior.

backgroundIsSelectAssociated resource:backgroundIsSelect.

+bs

This option specifies that the
terminal window should not use the Motif select color instead of the
background color for the terminal window's background color.

Associated resource:backgroundIsSelect.

-bw`border_width`

This option is identical to-borderwidthabove.

Associated resource:borderWidth.

-C

This option specifies that output directed at/dev/consoleshould be
directed instead to the terminal window. It is provided as a way to
prevent output that would normally be displayed on the ITE from
overwriting the X server's display. It is not provided as a general mechanism to
direct the output from an arbitrary system's/dev/consoleto an
arbitrary X server. Note that you must have ownership of and read/write
access to/dev/consolefor this option to work.

-display`display_name`

This option specifies the X11 display server to be used bydtterm.
This defaults to the value in the $DISPLAY environment variable.

`display_name`specifies the X11 server to connect to.display

-e`program_argument ...`

This option specifies an executable program to be invoked as a subprocess
whendttermis started.
This option must be the last option on
the command line.

`program_argument ...`specifies the program and command line arguments
to execute.

-fbfontset

This option specifies an XFontSet to be used when displaying bold terminal
text. It should be specified as a Motif XmFontList.
Only character or mono spaced fonts are supported. The behavior when
using proportional fonts is undefined.
A default bold font will be generated based on the XLFD
name of the userFont.
If that font is not available, bold text
will be generated by overstriking (with a one pixel offset) the
userFont.

fontsetspecifies the bold terminal XFontSet to use.

Associated resource:userFont.

-fg`foreground_color`

This option specifies the foreground color of the terminal window as
well as the default foreground color used for the scroll bar and the
for the X11 pointer cursor. Under CDE, this resource
will default to the primary color set foreground pixel. Without CDE,
this resource will default to*foregroundor*Foregroundwith
an ultimate fallback color of white.

`foreground_color`specifies the foreground color to use.

foregroundAssociated resource:foreground.

-fnfontset

This option specifies an XFontSet to be used when displaying terminal text.
It should be specified as a Motif XmFontList.
Only character or mono spaced fonts are supported. The behavior when
using proportional fonts is undefined.
This font will not be used
to display non-terminal text (menu bar, popup menus, dialogs, etc.).
The default is
to use the XmNtextFontList value of the parent bulletin board (see
XmBulletinBoard(3X)) in the same manner as the XmText widget.

fontsetSpecifies the terminal XFontSet to use.
Associated resource:userFont.

-fontfontset

This option is identical to-fnabove.

fontsetSpecifies the terminal XFontSet to use.

Associated resource:userFont.

-foreground`foreground`

This option is identical to-fgabove.

`foreground`Specifies the foreground color to use.

foregroundAssociated resource:foreground.

-geometry`geometry_string`

This option specifies the preferred size and position of the terminal
window. The default size is 24 lines of 80 characters each.
There is no default position.

`geometry`Specifies the terminal geometry to use.

geometryAssociated resource:geometry.

-help

Displays a message summarizing the usage ofdtterm.help

-iconic

This option specifies that the terminal emulator should initially be
placed on the display iconified.

iconicAssociated resource:iconic.

+iconic

This option specifies that the terminal emulator should initially be
placed on the display as a normal window. This is the default behavior.

Associated resource:iconic.

-j

This option specifies that jump scrolling should be used. Under jump
scrolling, the screen may be scrolled more than one line at a time. This
provides for faster screen updates when multiple lines of text are being
sent to the terminal. The maximum number of lines that may be jump
scrolled is limited to the number of lines in the terminal window. It is
guaranteed that
all lines will be displayed. This is the default behavior.

jumpScrollAssociated resource:jumpScroll.

+j

This option specifies that jump scrolling should not be used. For a
description of jump scrolling, see-jabove.

Associated resource:jumpScroll.

-kshMode

This option specifies that ksh mode should be enabled.
Under ksh mode, a key pressed with the extend modifier bit set will
generate an escape character followed by the character generated by the
un-extended keystroke. This option is provided for use with emacs and
the emacs command line editor mode ofksh(1)oried(1). It
conflicts with the normal use of the meta key for generating extended
single byte characters, and for generating multi-byte Asian characters.kshMode

Associated resource:kshMode.

+kshMode

This option specifies that the ksh mode should not be enabled. This is
the default behavior.

Associated resource:kshMode.

-l

This option enables output logging. When logging is enabled, all output
received from the subprocess is logged either to a file or to a command
pipeline (as specified via the-lfoption below). Since the data is
being logged directly from the subprocess, it includes all escape
characters and carriage return/newline pairs sent by the terminal line
discipline. Output may be enabled and disabled via
escape sequences.

loggingAssociated resource:logging.

+l

This option disables output logging. For a description of output
logging, see-labove. This option is the default.

loggingAssociated resource:logging.

-lf`file_name`

This option specifies the name of the file to which the output log described
above is written. If`file_name`begins with a pipe symbol (|), the rest of
the string is assumed to be a command to be used as the endpoint of a pipe.
The default filename isDttermLog`XXXXX`(where`XXXXX`is the process id ofdtterm) and is created in the directory from whichdttermwas started. If the last five characters are "XXXXX," they
are replaced by the process ID.

`file_name`specifies the log file name to use.

logFileAssociated resource:logFile.

-ls

This option indicates that the shell that is started
should be a login shell (i.e. the first character ofargv[0]will be a dash,
indicating to the shell that it should read the system'sprofileand the user's$HOME/.profile(forkshandsh) or the system'scsh.loginand the user's$HOME.login(forcsh).

loginShellAssociated resource:loginShell.

+ls

This option specifies that a normal (non-login) shell should be started.
This is the default behavior.

loginShellAssociated resource:loginShell.

-map

This option indicates thatdttermshould map (de-iconify) itself upon
subprocess output if it is unmapped (iconified). An initial period of time
during whichdttermwill not map itself upon subprocess output may be
specified
via themapOnOutputDelayresource.

mapOnOutputAssociated resource:mapOnOutput.

+map

This option specifies that there should be no special mapping behavior.
This is the default
behavior.

mapOnOutputAssociated resource:mapOnOutput.

-mb

This option indicates thatdttermshould ring a margin bell when the user
types near the right margin. The actual distance involved is specified by
the-nboption.

marginBellAssociated resource:marginBell.

+mb

This option indicates that margin bell should not be rung when the user
types near the right margin. This is the default.

marginBellAssociated resource:marginBell.

-ms`pointer_color`

This option specifies the foreground color to use for the terminal window's
(X11) pointer cursor. The default is to use the terminal window's
foreground color. Seeforegroundabove.

pointer_colorspecifies the pointer foreground color to use.

Associated resource:pointerColor.

-name`prog_name`

This option specifies the X11 name of thedttermwindow.

prog_namethe name to use.name

-nb`number`

This option specifies the number of characters from the right margin
at which the margin bell will ring, if enabled. The default is 10.

nMarginBellAssociated resource:nMarginBell.

-r

This option causes thedttermwindow to be displayed with the
foreground and background colors reversed. This is identical to the-rand-reverseoptions.

+r

This option causes thedttermwindow to be displayed with the normal
foreground and background colors. This is the default, and is also
identical to the+rvoption..

-reverse

This option causes thedttermwindow to be displayed with the
foreground and background colors reversed. This is identical to the-rand-rvoptions.

-rv

This option causes thedttermwindow to be displayed with the
foreground and background colors reversed. This is identical to choosing
Options | Global Options, and then changing the "windowBackground" options
menu to "Inverse." Adttermwindow started with this option has the
"Window Background" options menu set to "Inverse." See"Global Options".

+rv

This option causes thedttermwindow to be displayed with the normal
foreground and background colors. This is the default.

-rw

This option specifies that reverse-wraparound should be enabled.

reverseWrapAssociated resource:reverseWrap.

+rw

This option indicates that reverse-wraparound should not be enabled. This
is the default.

reverseWrapAssociated resource:reverseWrap.

-S`ccn`

This option specifies that the terminal emulator should be run against
a pre-opened pty or STREAMS device. This option is provided for use where
the pty or STREAMS device's slave name is
of the formtty??(i.e., exactly two characters following thetty). This option is intended for use whendttermis invoked
programmatically from another application.

ccspecifies the last two characters of the pty or STREAMS device's
slave name, where the
slave name is of the formtty??. This value is ignored, but must be
exactly two characters in length.

`n`specifies the number of the file descriptor that corresponds to the
pty or STREAMS device's already-opened master side.

-S`c.n`

This option is identical to-Sccnabove, but is provided for systems
with a larger pty name space.

cspecifies the last component of the pty slave name. This values is
ignored and may be empty.

`n`specifies the number of the file descriptor that corresponds to the
pty's already-opened master side.

-sb

This option indicates that a scrollbar should be displayed. This is the
default.

scrollBarAssociated resource:scrollBar.

+sb

This option indicates that a scrollbar should`not`be displayed.

scrollBarAssociated resource:scrollBar.

-sf

This option indicates that Sun Function Key escape codes should be
generated for function keys instead of standard VT220 escape sequences.

sunFunctionKeysAssociated resource:sunFunctionKeys.

+sf

This option indicates that the standard escape sequences should be
generated for function keys instead of the Sun Function Key escape codes.
This is the default behavior.

sunFunctionKeysAssociated resource:sunFunctionKeys.

-sl`screens[s|l]`

This option specifies the number of lines in the terminal buffer beyond the
length of the window. The option value consists of a number followed by an
optional suffix. If no suffix is included, or the suffix is "l" (ell), the
total length of the terminal buffer will be`screens`plus the length of
the terminal window. If the suffix is "s" (ess), the total length of the
terminal buffer will be (`screens`plus one) times the length of the
terminal window.dttermwill try to maintain the same buffer-to-window
ratio when the window is resized larger. The default is "4s."

`screens`specifies the number of screens or lines to save.

saveLinesAssociated resource:saveLines.

-titerm_id

This option supplies the name used to select the correct response to
terminal ID queries. Valid values arevt100, vt101, vt102, andvt220. The default isvt220.

term_idspecifies the terminal ID to use.

-title`title_string`

This option specifies the window title. If the-eoption is
used, the default will be the last component of the program's path. If
the-eoption is not used, the default will be the last component of
the name used to executedtterm(i.e.,argv[0]).

title_stringspecifies the title to use.

titleAssociated resource:title.

-tm`term_modes`

This option specifies a string containing terminal-setting keywords
and the characters to which they may be bound. Allowable keywords
includeintr,quit,erase,kill,eof,eol,swtch,start,stop,brk,susp,dsusp,rprnt,flush,weras,
andlnext. Keywords that do not apply
to a specific architecture will be correctly parsed and ignored.
Control characters may be specified as^followed bychar(e.g.^cor^u), and^?may be used to indicate delete. This is useful for overridding the
default terminal settings without having to do anstty(1)every time a
terminal process is started. The default is NULL.

term_modesspecifies the terminal mode string.

ttyModesAssociated resource:ttyModes.

-tn`term_name`

This option specifies a name to set the$TERMenvironment variable to. The default is"vt220".

term_namespecifies the terminal name to use.

termNameAssociated resource:termName.

-usage

Prints a usage message on the screen.

-vb

This option indicates that a visual bell is preferred over an audible one.
Instead of ringing the terminal bell whenever a Control-G is received, the
window will be flashed.

visualBellAssociated resource:visualBell.

+vb

This option indicates that an audio bell is preferred over a visual one.
This is the default behavior.

visualBellAssociated resource:visualBell.

-w`border_width`

This option is identical to-borderwidthabove.

`border_width`specifies the width of the window border in pixels.

-xrm`resource_string`

This option allows X11 Resource Manager-style resources to be specified on
the command line.`resource_string`specifies an X11 resource string.
# RESOURCES


allowSendEvents

This resource specifies that the terminal emulator should allow
synthetic events (generated and sent by another application). Enabling
this resource opens up a possible security hole. The default is
False.

appCursorDefault

If True, the cursor keys are initially in application mode. If False, they
are initially in cursor mode. The
default is False.

appKeypadDefault

If True, the keypad keys are initially in application mode. If False, they
are initially in numeric mode. The
default is False.

autoWrap

This resource specifies whether or not auto-wraparound is initially
enabled. The default is True.

background

This resource specifies the background color of the terminal window as
well as the default background color used for the scrollbar. Under CDE,
this resource
defaults to either the primary color set select pixel or the primary
color set background pixe (seebackgroundIsSelect). The default is the
primary color set background pixel. Without CDE,
this resource defaults to black.

backgroundIsSelect

When True, this resource specifies that the terminal window should use the Motif
select color instead of the background color for the terminal window's
background color. The default is False.

blinkRate

This resource specifies the number of milliseconds the cursor is in the"on"and"off"states while blinking. A value of
250 will blink the cursor two times per second. A value of 0
will turn blinking off. The default is 250.

borderColor

This resource defines the border color for the window. The window border
may not be visible when reparenting window managers such asdtwmandmwmare used. The
default is"black".

borderWidth

This resource specifies the border width of the shell widget's window.
This value may be overridden by reparenting window managers such asdtwmandmwm. The default is0.

c132

This resource specifies whether or not the DECCOLM escape sequence that
switches to window with between 80 and 132 columns should be honored. The
default is
False.

charCursorStyle

This resource specifies the shape of the text cursor. A value ofchar_cursor_boxspecifies a cursor with the width and height of the
base font's bounding box. A value ofchar_cursor_barspecifies a
cursor with the width of the base font's bounding box, a height of two
pixels, and drawn with it's top on the baseline. The default ischar_cursor_box.

consoleMode

This resource specifies that output directed at/dev/consoleshould be
directed instead to the terminal window. It is provided as a way to
prevent output that would normally be displayed on the ITE from
overwriting the X server's display. It is not provided as a
general mechanism to
direct the output from an arbitrary system's/dev/consoleto an
arbitrary X server. Note that you must have ownership of and read/write
access to/dev/consolefor this option to work.
The default is False.

foreground

This resource specifies the foreground color of the terminal window as well as
the default foreground color used for the scrollbar and the color used
for the pointer
cursor. Under CDE, this resource will default to the primary
colorset foreground. Otherwise, it defaults to"white".

geometry

This resource specifies the preferred size and position of the terminal
window. The default size is 24 lines of 80 characters each. There is
no default position.

iconGeometry

This resource specifies the preferred position of the terminal
emulator's icon. Window managers may ignore this value.
There is no default.

iconic

If true, this resource specifies that the terminal emulator should
initially be placed on the display iconified. Window managers (includingdtwmandmwmmay ignore this value.
The default is False.

iconicName

This resource specifies the name for the icon. If the-eoption is
used, the default will be the last component of the program's path. If
the-eoption is not used, the default will be the base name of the
name used to executedtterm(i.e.,argv[0]).

jumpScroll

This resource specifies that jump scrolling should be used. Under jump
scrolling, the screen may be scrolled more than one line at a time. This
provides for faster screen updates when multiple lines of text are being
sent to the terminal. The maximum number of lines that may be jump
scrolled is limited to the number of lines in the display. It is guaranteed that
all lines will be displayed. The default is True.

kshMode

This resource specifies that ksh mode should be enabled. Under ksh mode,
a key pressed with the extend modifier bit set will generate an escape
character followed by the character generated by the un-extended
keystroke. This option is provided for use with emacs and emacs command
line editor mode ofksh(1)oried(1). It conflicts with the
normal use of the meta key for generating extended single byte
characters and for generating multi-byte Asian characters. The default
is False.

logFile

This resource specifies the name of the file to which the output log described
below is written. If the filename begins with a pipe symbol (|), the
rest of the string is assumed to be a command to be used as the endpoint of
a pipe. The default filename isDttermLog`XXXXX`(where`XXXXX`is a unique character string) and is created in the directory from
which the subprocess was started.
If the last five characters are "XXXXX," they
are replaced by a unique character string.

logging

This resource enables output logging. When logging is enabled, all
output received from the subprocess is logged either to a file or to a
command pipeline (as specified via thelogFileoption above). Since
the data is being logged directly from the subprocess, it includes all
escape characters and carriage return/newline pairs sent by the terminal
line discipline. Output may be enabled and disabled via
escape sequences. The default is
False.

logInhibit

This resource specifies that device and file logging should be inhibited.
The default is False.

loginShell

This resource specifies that the shell that is started should be a login
shell (i.e. the first character ofargv[0]will be a dash, indicating
to the shell that it should read the system'sprofileand the user's$HOME/.profile(forkshandsh) or the system'scsh.loginand
the user's$HOME/.login(forcsh). The default is False.

mapOnOutput

This resource indicates that the terminal emulator should map
(de-iconify) itself upon subprocess output if it is unmapped (iconified). An
initial period of time during which it will not map itself upon subprocess
output may be specified via themapOnOutputDelayresource (see
below). The default is False.

mapOnOutputDelay

This resource specifies the number of seconds after start-up thatdttermwill not honor themapOnOutputresource (see above). This
allows for initial output (e.g., shell prompts) to be sent to the
terminal without auto mapping the window. The default is0(no delay)

marginBell

Specifies whether or not the bell should be run when the user types near
the right margin. The default is False.

menuBar

This resources specifies that a pulldown menu should be displayed. The
default is True.

menuPopup

This resources specifies that a popup menu should be enabled. The
default is True.

nMarginBell

Specifies the number of characters from the right margin at which the
margin bell should be rung, when enabled. The default is 10.

pointerBlank

This resource specifies that the pointer cursor should be put into
blanking mode. In this mode, the cursor will turn on when the pointer is
moved, and will be blanked either after a selectable number of seconds
or after keyboard input has occurred. The delay is set via thepointerBlankDelayresource (see below). The default is False.

pointerBlankDelay

This resource defines the number of seconds to wait before blanking the
pointer cursor after the pointer has been moved. A value of 0 invokes
pointer blanking only on keyboard input. The default is 2
seconds.

pointerColor

This resource specifies the foreground color to use for the terminal
window's pointer (X11) cursor. The default is to use the terminal window's
foreground color. Seeforegroundabove.

pointerColorBackground

This resource specifies the background color to use for the terminal
windows pointer (X11) cursor. The default is to use the terminal windows
background color Seebackgroundabove.

pointerShape

This resource specifies the X cursor font character to use as the pointer
cursor. It should be specified as a string from the include file<X11/cursorfont.h>with the leadingXC_removed. The default isxterm.

reverseVideo

This resource specifies whether or not reverse video should be
used. The default is False.

reverseWrap

This resource specifies whether or not reverse-wraparound should be
enabled. The default is False.

saveLines

This resource specifies the number of lines in the terminal buffer beyond
length of the window. The value value consists of a number followed by an
optional suffix. If no suffix is included, or the suffix is "l" (ell), the
total length of the terminal buffer will be`screens`plus the length of
the terminal window. If the suffix is "s" (ess), the total length of the
terminal buffer will be (`screens`plus one) times the length of the
terminal window.dttermwill try to maintain the same buffer-to-window
ratio when the window is resized larger. The default is "4s."

scrollBar

This resource specifies whether or not the scrollbar should be visible.
The
default is True.

sunFunctionKeys

Specifies whether or not Sun Function Key escape codes should be
generated for function keys instead of standard VT220 escape sequences.
The default is False.

termId

This resource supplies the name used to select the correct response to
terminal ID queries. Valid values arevt100,vt101,vt102,
andvt220. The default isvt220.

termName

This resource defines the name for the$TERMenvironment variable. The default isvt220.

title

This resource specifies the window title. If the-eoption is used,
the default will be the last component of the program's path. If the-eoption is not used, the default will be the last component of the
name used to executedtterm(i.e.,argv[0]).

ttyModes

This resource specifies a string containing terminal-setting keywords
and the characters to which they may be bound. Allowable keywords
include:intr, quit, erase, kill, eof, eol, swtch, start, stop, brk,
susp, dsusp, rprnt, flush, weras, andInext. Keywords that do not
apply to a specific architecture will be correctly parsed and ignored. Control characters may
be specified as^followed bychar(e.g.^cor^u), and^?may be used to indicate
delete. This is very useful for overriding the default terminal
settings without having to do ansttyevery time a terminal process
is started. The default is NULL.

userBoldFont

This resource specifies an XFontSet to be used when displaying bold
terminal text. It should be specified as a MotifXmFontList. Only
character or mono spaced fonts are supported. The behavior when using
proportional fonts is undefined. A default bold font will be generated
based on the XLFD name of theuserFont. If that font is not available,
bold text will be generated by overstriking (with a one pixel offset) theuserFont.

userFont

This resource specifies an XFontSet to be used when displaying
terminal text. It should be specified as a MotifXmFontList. Only
character or mono spaced fonts are supported. The behavior when using
proportional fonts is undefined. This font will not be used to display
non-terminal text (menu bar, popup menu, dialog, etc.). The default is to
use theXmNtextFontListvalue of the parent bulletin board (see
XmBulletinBoard(3X)) in the same manner as theXmTextwidget.

visualBell

This resource specifies that a visual bell is preferred over an audible
one. Instead of ringing the terminal bell whenever a CTRL-G is received,
the windows will be flashed. The default is False.
# POINTER USAGE


dttermallows you to select regions of text. Selection is based on the model
specified in theInter-Client Communication Conventions Manual(ICCCM).dttermsupports primary selection only. You can copy or
paste selected text using primary transfer. Input is treated as keyboard
input, and is inserted at the cursor. The select/insert operations and their
default assignments are described below.

* **select** 

The left button is used to select the text
to be copied. Move
the pointer to the beginning of the text to copy, press and hold the left
button, move the cursor to the end of the text to copy, and release the
button. Any currently selected text can be deselected by clicking the left
button once without moving the mouse.
* **insert** 

The middle button pastes the text from the primary selection,
treating it as keyboard input.

# ACTIONS


This topic describes thedttermaction routines.

bell([Percentage])

This action rings the keyboard bell at the specified`percentage`above or
below the base volume.

break ()

This action send a break signal to the child process.

cancel ()

This action sends aCAN(cancel) character to the child process.

do ()

This action sends the escape sequence associated with theDokey
to the child process.

edit-key(`string`)

This action sends the escape sequence associated with the corresponding
edit key to the child process. The interpretation of these keys is
application specific.
Valid values for`string`arefind,insert,next,prior,remove, andselect.

extend-start()

Start the extension of the currently selected text.

extend-end ()

Extends the current selection. The amount of text selected depends on
the number of mouse clicks.

function-key-execute(num[,`type`])

This action sends the escape sequence associated with the corresponding
function keynumto the child process. Valid values fornumare1through35. If`type`is set tofunction(or not set at all), the escape sequence associated with function
keynumis sent to the child process. If`type`is set toUDK, then the string associated with user defined keynumis sent to the child process.

grab-focus ()

This action performs one of the following depending on the number of
multiple mouse clicks. One click will deselect any selected text and
set the selection anchor at the pointer position, two clicks will select
a word, three clicks will select a line of text, and four clicks will
select all text.

hard-reset ()

This action will perform a hard reset on the terminal emulator.

help ()

This action sends the escape sequence associated with theDEC VT220Help key to the child process.
The interpretation of this key is application specific.

keymap(`name`)

This action dynamically defines a new translation table whose resource
name is name with the suffix Keymap (case is significant). The nameNonerestores the original translation table.

keypad-key-execute(`string`)

This action sends the escape sequence associated with the corresponding
keypad key to the child process. The interpretation of these keys are
application specific. Valid values for`string`include:f1-f4,space,tab,enter,equal,multiply,add,separator,subtract,decimal,divide, and0-9.

move-cursor(`direction`)

This action sends the escape sequence associated with the corresponding
cursor motion to the child process. The interpretation of these keys are
application specific. Valid values for`direction`include:up,down,backward, andforward.

redraw-display ()

This action redraws the contents of the text window.

scroll(`count`[,`units`])

This action will scroll the display memory down if`count`is less than
zero, or up if`count`is ggeater than zero. The number of lines scrolled is
based on count and units. Valid values for`units`arepage,halfpage, orline.
The default for units isline.

select-adjust ()

This action extends the selection. The amount of text selected depends on the
number of mouse clicks:

1 click = char

2 clicks = word

3 clicks = line

4 clicks = buffer

select-all ()

This action selects all text.

select-page ()

This action selects all text on the screen.

self-insert ()

This action sends the character associated with the key pressed to the child
process.

soft-reset ()

This action perform a soft reset of the terminal.

stop(`state`)

This action either toggles, starts, or stops the process of reading data
from the child process. Valid values for`state`aretoggle,on, andoff.

string(`string`)

This action insert the specified text string as if it had been typed.
The string must be quoted if it contains whitespace or non-alphanumeric
characters. The string is interpreted as a hex character constant if it
begins with the characters0x.

tab ()

This action sends a tab to the child process.

visual-bell ()

This action flashes the window quickly.
# Virtual Bindings


The bindings for virtual keys are vendor specific.
Virtual bindings do not apply when thedttermwidget has input focus.
For information about bindings for virtual buttons and keys, seeVirtualBindings(3X).
# TRANSLATIONS


dttermincludes translations from Primitive.
Note that altering translations in#overrideor#augmentmode is undefined.

* **Shift~Ctrl<Key>KP_Multiply:** 

XtDisplayInstalledAccelerators()
* **~ShiftCtrl<Key>KP_Multiply:** 

XtDisplayAccelerators()
* **ShiftCtrl<Key>KP_Multiply:** 

XtDisplayTranslations()
* **<Key>osfCancel:** 

process-cancel()
* **<Key>osfCopy:** 

copy-clipboard()
* **<Key>osfCut:** 

copy-clipboard()
* **<Key>osfPaste:** 

paste-clipboard()
* **<Key>osfBeginLine:** 

beginning-of-buffer()
* **<Key>osfEndLine:** 

end-of-buffer()
* **Shift<Key>osfUp:** 

scroll(1,line)
* **Shift<Key>osfDown:** 

scroll(-1,line)
* **<Key>osfUp:** 

move-cursor(up)
* **<Key>osfDown:** 

move-cursor(down)
* **<Key>osfLeft:** 

move-cursor(backward)
* **<Key>osfRight:** 

move-cursor(forward)
* **<Key>Find:** 

vt-edit-key(find)
* **<Key>Insert:** 

vt-edit-key(insert)
* **<Key>Select:** 

vt-edit-key(select)
* **<Key>Do:** 

vt-edit-key(do)
* **<Key>Help:** 

vt-edit-key(help)
* **<Key>Menu:** 

vt-edit-key(menu)
* **~Shift<Key>osfPageUp:** 

vt-edit-key(prior)
* **~Shift<Key>osfPageDown:** 

vt-edit-key(next)
* **<Key>osfPageUp:** 

scroll(-1,page)
* **<Key>osfPageDown:** 

scroll(1,page)
* **Mod1<Key>Break:** 

soft-reset()
* **Shift<Key>Break:** 

hard-reset()
* **~Shift ~Mod1<Key>Break:** 

vt-break()
* **Ctrl<Key>Cancel:** 

stop(long)
* **~Ctrl<Key>Cancel:** 

stop()
* **~Shift<Key>Tab:** 

tab()
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Space:** 

keypad-key-execute(space)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Tab:** 

keypad-key-execute(tab)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Enter:** 

keypad-key-execute(enter)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_F1:** 

keypad-key-execute(f1)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_F2:** 

keypad-key-execute(f2)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_F3:** 

keypad-key-execute(f3)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_F4:** 

keypad-key-execute(f4)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Equal:** 

keypad-key-execute(equal)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Multiply:** 

keypad-key-execute(multiply)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Add:** 

keypad-key-execute(add)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Separator:** 

keypad-key-execute(separator)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Subtract:** 

keypad-key-execute(subtract)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Decimal:** 

keypad-key-execute(decimal)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_Divide:** 

keypad-key-execute(divide)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_0:** 

keypad-key-execute(0)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_1:** 

keypad-key-execute(1)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_2:** 

keypad-key-execute(2)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_3:** 

keypad-key-execute(3)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_4:** 

keypad-key-execute(4)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_5:** 

keypad-key-execute(5)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_6:** 

keypad-key-execute(6)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_7:** 

keypad-key-execute(7)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_8:** 

keypad-key-execute(8)
* **~Mod1<Key>KP_9:** 

keypad-key-execute(9)
* **Shift<Key>F1:** 

vt-function-key-execute(1, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F2:** 

vt-function-key-execute(2, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F3:** 

vt-function-key-execute(3, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F4:** 

vt-function-key-execute(4, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F5:** 

vt-function-key-execute(5, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F6:** 

vt-function-key-execute(6, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F7:** 

vt-function-key-execute(7, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F8:** 

vt-function-key-execute(8, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F9:** 

vt-function-key-execute(9, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F10:** 

vt-function-key-execute(10, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F11:** 

vt-function-key-execute(11, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F12:** 

vt-function-key-execute(12, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F13:** 

vt-function-key-execute(13, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F14:** 

vt-function-key-execute(14, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F15:** 

vt-function-key-execute(15, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F16:** 

vt-function-key-execute(16, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F17:** 

vt-function-key-execute(17, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F18:** 

vt-function-key-execute(18, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F19:** 

vt-function-key-execute(19, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F20:** 

vt-function-key-execute(20, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F21:** 

vt-function-key-execute(21, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F22:** 

vt-function-key-execute(22, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F23:** 

vt-function-key-execute(23, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F24:** 

vt-function-key-execute(24, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F25:** 

vt-function-key-execute(25, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F26:** 

vt-function-key-execute(26, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F27:** 

vt-function-key-execute(27, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F28:** 

vt-function-key-execute(28, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F29:** 

vt-function-key-execute(29, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F30:** 

vt-function-key-execute(30, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F31:** 

vt-function-key-execute(31, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F32:** 

vt-function-key-execute(32, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F33:** 

vt-function-key-execute(33, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F34:** 

vt-function-key-execute(34, UDK)
* **Shift<Key>F35:** 

vt-function-key-execute(35, UDK)
* **~Shift<Key>F1:** 

vt-function-key-execute(1, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F2:** 

vt-function-key-execute(2, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F3:** 

vt-function-key-execute(3, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F4:** 

vt-function-key-execute(4, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F5:** 

vt-function-key-execute(5, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F6:** 

vt-function-key-execute(6, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F7:** 

vt-function-key-execute(7, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F8:** 

vt-function-key-execute(8, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F9:** 

vt-function-key-execute(9, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F10:** 

vt-function-key-execute(10, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F11:** 

vt-function-key-execute(11, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F12:** 

vt-function-key-execute(12, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F13:** 

vt-function-key-execute(13, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F14:** 

vt-function-key-execute(14, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F15:** 

vt-function-key-execute(15, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F16:** 

vt-function-key-execute(16, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F17:** 

vt-function-key-execute(17, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F18:** 

vt-function-key-execute(18, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F19:** 

vt-function-key-execute(19, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F20:** 

vt-function-key-execute(20, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F21:** 

vt-function-key-execute(21, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F22:** 

vt-function-key-execute(22, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F23:** 

vt-function-key-execute(23, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F24:** 

vt-function-key-execute(24, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F25:** 

vt-function-key-execute(25, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F26:** 

vt-function-key-execute(26, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F27:** 

vt-function-key-execute(27, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F28:** 

vt-function-key-execute(28, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F29:** 

vt-function-key-execute(29, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F30:** 

vt-function-key-execute(30, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F31:** 

vt-function-key-execute(31, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F32:** 

vt-function-key-execute(32, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F33:** 

vt-function-key-execute(33, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F34:** 

vt-function-key-execute(34, function)
* **~Shift<Key>F35:** 

vt-function-key-execute(35, function)
* **<KeyRelease>:** 

key-release()
* **<KeyPress>:** 

insert()
* **~Shift~Ctrl<Btn1Down>:** 

grab-focus()
* **Shift~Ctrl<Btn1Down>:** 

extend-start()
* **~Ctrl<Btn1Motion>:** 

select-adjust()
* **~Ctrl<Btn1Up>:** 

extend-end()
* **~Shift<Btn2Down>:** 

process-bdrag()
* **~Shift<Btn2Up>:** 

copy-to()
* **<EnterWindow>:** 

enter()
* **<LeaveWindow>:** 

leave()
* **<FocusIn>:** 

focus-in()
* **<FocusOut>:** 

focus-out()

# dtterm Escape Sequences


Each of the topics below contains a list of applicable escape sequences.
See thedtterm(5x)man page for more detailed information.










# Cursor Keys, VT220 Mode


The table below shows the key press and the corresponding escape sequences
sent for Normal and Application modes.Cursor Key Mode

   KEY        Normal   Application
=========     ======   =========== 
Cursor Up      Esc[A      EscOA
Cursor Down    Esc[B      EscOB
Cursor Right   Esc[C      EscOC
Cursor Left    Esc[D      EscOD
# Auxiliary Keypad, ANSI Mode


The table below shows the key press and the corresponding escape sequences
sent for Numeric and Application modes.Application Keypad Mode

   KEY        Normal   Application
=========     ======   =========== 
space          space      EscOA 
tab            tab        EscOI 
Enter          CR/CR-LF   EscOM    
PF1            EscOP      EscOP 
PF2            EscOQ      EscOQ 
PF3            EscOR      EscOR 
PF4            EscOS      EscOS 
* (multiply)     *        EscOj 
+ (add)          +        EscOk 
, (comma)        ,        EscOl 
- (minus)        -        EscOm 
. (period)       .        EscOn 
/ (divide)       /        EscOo 
0                0        EscOp 
1                1        EscOq 
2                2        EscOr 
3                3        EscOs 
4                4        EscOt 
5                5        EscOu 
6                6        EscOv 
7                7        EscOw 
8                8        EscOx 
9                9        EscOy 
=(equal)         =        EscOX
# Function Keys, VT220 Mode


The table below shows the key press and the corresponding escape sequences
sent.KEY         Escape Sequence Sent
=========     ==================== 
F1                   Esc[11~
F2                   Esc[12~
F3                   Esc[13~
F4                   Esc[14~
F5                   Esc[15~
F6                   Esc[17~
F7                   Esc[18~
F8                   Esc[19~
F9                   Esc[20~
F10                  Esc[21~
F11                  Esc[23~
F12                  Esc[24~
F13                  Esc[25~
F14                  Esc[26~
F15                  Esc[28~
F16                  Esc[29~
F17                  Esc[31~
F18                  Esc[32~
F19                  Esc[33~
F20                  Esc[34~
Help                 Esc[28~
Menu                 Esc[29~
Find                 Esc[1~
Insert               Esc[2~
Remove               Esc[3~
Select               Esc[4~
Prior                Esc[5~
Next                 Esc[6~
# Function Keys, sunFunctionKeys Mode


The table below shows the key press and the corresponding escape sequences
sent.KEY         Escape Sequence Sent
=========     ==================== 
F1                   Esc[224z
F2                   Esc[225z
F3                   Esc[226z
F4                   Esc[227z
F5                   Esc[228z
F6                   Esc[229z
F7                   Esc[230z
F8                   Esc[231z
F9                   Esc[232z
F10                  Esc[233z
F11                  Esc[192z
F12                  Esc[193z
F13                  Esc[194z
F14                  Esc[195z
F15                  Esc[196z
F16                  Esc[197z
F17                  Esc[198z
F18                  Esc[199z
F19                  Esc[200z
F20                  Esc[201z
F21 (R1)             Esc[208z
F22 (R2)             Esc[209z
F23 (R3)             Esc[210z
F24 (R4)             Esc[211z
F25 (R5)             Esc[212z
F26 (R6)             Esc[213z
F27 (R7)             Esc[214z
F28 (R8)             Esc[215z
F29 (R9)             Esc[216z
F30 (R10)            Esc[217z
F31 (R11)            Esc[218z
F32 (R12)            Esc[219z
F33 (R13)            Esc[220z
F34 (R14)            Esc[221z
F35 (R15)            Esc[222z
Help                 Esc[196z
Menu                 Esc[197z
Find                 Esc[1z
Insert               Esc[2z
Remove               Esc[3z
Select               Esc[4z
Prior                Esc[5z
Next                 Esc[6z
# Received Escape Sequences


The following table describes the received escape sequences supported by dtterm.Escape
Sequence       Description
========       ===========
Ctrl-G         Bell (Ctrl-G)
Ctrl-H         Backspace (Ctrl-H)
Ctrl-I         Horizontal Tab (HT) (Ctrl-I)
Ctrl-J         Line Feed or New Line (NL) (Ctrl-J)
Ctrl-K         Vertical Tab same as Line Feed
Ctrl-L         Form Feed or New Page same as Line Feed
Ctrl-M         Carriage Return (Ctrl-M)
Esc ( B        Designate ASCII (base font) as G0.
Esc ( 0        Designate DEC Special Graphic (line draw) as G0.
Esc ) B        Designate ASCII (base font) as G1.
Esc ) 0        Designate DEC Special Graphic (line draw) as G1.
Esc * B        Designate ASCII (base font) as G2.
Esc * 0        Designate DEC Special Graphic (line draw) as G2.
Esc + B        Designate ASCII (base font) as G3.
Esc + 0        Designate DEC Special Graphic (line draw) as G3.
Ctrl-N         Map G1 into GL.
Ctrl-O         Map G0 into GL.
Esc n          Map G2 into GL.
Esc o          Map G3 into GL.
Esc N          Map G2 into GL for the next character.
Esc O          Map G3 into GL for the next character.
Esc Space F    Select 7-bit C1 Control Characters.  In this mode, the
               dtterm utility sends all C1 Control Characters to the 
               host as 7-bit escape sequences. That is, CSI is sent to
               the host as&newline;f2Esc&newline;fP [.
Esc Space G    Select 8-bit C1 Control Characters. In this mode, the
               dtterm utility sends all C1 Control Characters to the
               host as 8-bit control codes. That is, CSI is sent back 
               as the hexadecimal value 0x9B.
Esc#8          DEC Screen Align Test (DECALN)
Esc7           Save Cursor (DECSC)
Esc8           Restore Cursor (DECRC)
Esc=           Application Keypad (DECPAM)
Esc>           Normal Keypad (DECPNM)
EscD           Index (IND)
EscE           Next Line (NEL)
EscH           Tab Set (HTS)
EscM           Reverse Index (RI)
EscP`pi;pi|pi/hex digits;pi/hex digits;...`Esc&newline;
               Device Control String (DCS)
EscZ           Return Terminal ID (DECID)
Escc           Full Reset (RIS)
Escn           Select the G2 Character Set (LS2)
Esco           Select the G3 Character Set (LS3)
Esc[`pi`"p       Select Compatibility Level (DECSCL)
Esc[`pi`@        Insert Blank Characters (ICH)
Esc[`pi`A        Cursor Up (CUU)
Esc[`pi`B        Cursor Down (CUD)
Esc[`pi`C        Cursor Forward (CUF)
Esc[`pi`D        Cursor Backward (CUB)
Esc[`pi`F        Cursor to`pi`th preceding line (CPL)
Esc[`pi`G        Cursor to Column p (CHA)
Esc[`pi;``pi`H     Cursor Position (CUP)
Esc[`pi`J        Erase in Display (ED)
Esc[`pi`K        Erase in Line (EL)
Esc[`pi`L        Insert Lines (IL)
Esc[`pi`M        Delete Lines (DL)
Esc[`pi`P        Delete Characters (DCH)
Esc[`pi`S        Scroll up p lines (SU)
Esc[`pi`T        Scroll Down (SD)
Esc[`pi`X        Erase`pi`characters (ECH)
Esc[`pi`c        Send Device Attributes
Esc[`pi;``pi`f     Horizontal and Vertical Position (HVP)
Esc[`pi`g        Tab Clear (TBC)
Esc[`pi`h        Set Mode (SM)
Esc[`pi`l        Reset Mode (RM)
Esc[`pi`m        Character Attributes (SGR)
Esc[`pi`n        Device Status Report (DSR)
Esc[`pi;``pi`r     Set Scrolling Region (DECSTBM)
Esc[`pi`x        Request Terminal Parameters
Esc[?`pi`h       DEC Private Mode Set (DECSET)
Esc[?`pi`l       DEC Private Mode Reset (DECRSET)
Esc[?`pi`n       DEC Private Mode Status (DSR)
Esc[?`pi`r       Restore DEC Private Mode Values
Esc[?`pi`s       Save DEC Private Mode Values
Esc]?`pi;``pi`Ctrl-G
               Set Text Parameters
Esc]`p1;p2;p3t`Sun Escape Sequences
Esc_`pi`Esc&bsol;     Application Program
Esc[?`pi`K       Selective erase in line (DECSEL)
Esc[?`pi`J       Selective erase in display (DECSED)
Esc!p          Soft Terminal Reset (DECSTR)
# dtterm Keyboard Information
keyboard information

This topic contains a list of keyboard functionality associated with dtterm.
It
includes only the keys that are special for dtterm. They apply only
when the terminal text area has the keyboard focus. They do`not`apply when a dialog, pulldown, or popup menu has the keyboard focus.
In some cases, additional modifiers
are ignored. For example, the description for F1 does not apply to Shift
F1, but the description of Tab applies to both Tab and Shift Tab.<Key>Home          Scroll to beginning of the buffer
Shift<Key>Home     Scroll to the end of the buffer
Shift<Key>Prior    Scroll up one page
Shift<Key>Next     Scroll down one page

<Key>Up            Sends the escape sequence as described
                   in dtterm Escape Sequences
<Key>Down          Sends the escape sequence as described
                   in dtterm Escape Sequences
<Key>Left          Sends the escape sequence as described
                   in dtterm Escape Sequences
<Key>Right         Sends the escape sequence as described
                   in dtterm Escape Sequences
CTRL<Key>Up        Sends the escape sequence as described
                   in dtterm Escape Sequences
CTRL<Key>Down      Sends the escape sequence as described
                   in dtterm Escape Sequences
CTRL<Key>Left      Sends the escape sequence as described
                   in dtterm Escape Sequences
CTRL<Key>Right     Sends the escape sequence as described
                   in dtterm Escape Sequences
<Key>Prior
<Key>Next
<Key>Find
<Key>Insert
<Key>Select

<Key>Cancel        Toggles on/off subprocess output.

<Key>Tab           Sends a tab character.

<Key>Break         Sends an RS232 break to the subprocess.
Meta<Key>Break     Soft Reset as described in dtterm Escape Sequences.
Shift<Key>Break    Hard Reset as described in dtterm Escape Sequences.

<Key>F1            Sends the function key escape sequence
 through           as described in dtterm Escape Sequences. 
<Key>F35

Shift<Key>F1       Sends the user defined sequence (if any)
 through           for that key.
Shift<Key>F35

Esc                Sends the escape character

<Key>KP_F1         Sends the escape sequence as described
 through           in dtterm Escape Sequences.
<Key>KP_F4

<Key>KP_0          Sends either the char or escape sequence
 through           as described in dtterm Escape Sequences.
<Key>KP_9

<Key>KP_Equal
<Key>KP_Multiply
<Key>KP_Add
<Key>KP_Separator
<Key>KP_Subtract
<Key>KP_Decimal
<Key>KP_Divide
<Key>KP_Space
<Key>KP_Tab
<Key>KP_EnterNote that not all vendors' keyboards supply these keys.
Please see your local vendor's documentation for alternate key bindings.
# Global Options Dialog Box


There are four areas that you can control from the Global Options dialog
box:









Each of these areas contains one or more option menus from which you can
choose values for a particular option.

Any changes made in the Global Options dialog box apply only to thedttermwindow from which you accessed the dialog box.
# Cursor Control


All of the cursor aspects are controlled by selecting a choice in an options
menu button or, in the case of the Blink Rate option, entering a value in
the text
field.
# To Change the Cursor Appearance
cursor:appearance

Choose Global from the Options menu in thedttermwindow.

Press mouse button 1 on the Cursor Style list and drag to the cursor
type you want (Box, Underline, or Invisible).

Click Apply to save your change, or OK to save your change and quit
the dialog box.
# To Stop the Cursor from Blinking
cursor:blinkingblinking cursor

Choose Global from the Options menu in thedttermwindow.

Press mouse button 1 on the Blinking Cursor menu button and drag to
the cursor behavior you want.

Enabled (the default) means the cursor will blink; Disabled stops the
blinking.

If you set the cursor to blink and want the blink rate to be
different from the default 250 milliseconds, type the rate you want in
the Blink Rate text field.

Click Apply to save your change, or OK to save your change and quit
the dialog box.
# Color Control


The Color Control option enables you to switch yourdttermforeground and
background colors. The default option is Normal; the foreground
and background colors you choose are displayed normally.
# To Switch Foreground and Background Colors


Choose Global from the Options menu in thedttermwindow.

Press mouse button 1 on the Window Background menu button and drag
to determine how the colors will appear.

Normal (the default) keeps the colors as assigned; Inverse switches
them.

Click Apply to save your change, or OK to save your change and quit
the dialog box.
# Scroll Behavior


The Scroll Behavior option allows you to enable and disable smooth scrolling.
The default is disabled.
# To Make Scrolling Smooth


Choose Global from the Options menu in thedttermwindow.

Press mouse button 1 on the Smooth Scrolling menu button and drag to
the type of scrolling you want.

Disabled (the default) scrolls a page at a time, and Enabled scrolls a
single line at a time, which makes
scrolling smoother.

Click Apply to save your change, or OK to save your change and quit
the dialog box.
# Bell Control


All of the Bell Control options are controlled by selecting a choice in an
options menu button or, in the case of the Margin Distance option, entering
a value in the text field space.
# To Make the Bell Blink Rather than Ring
bell type

Choose Global from the Options menu in thedttermwindow.

Press mouse button 1 on the Bell Type menu button and drag to the
bell type you want.

Audible (the default) means the bell will ring; Visible means the bell
will blink the background color rather than ringing.

Click Apply to save your change, or OK to save your change and quit
the dialog box.
# To Sound a Margin Warning


The Margin Warning Option is either disabled (the default) or enabled.

Choose Global from the Options menu in thedttermwindow.

Press mouse button 1 on the Margin Warning menu button and drag to
the choice you want.

Disabled (the default) means there will be no margin warning; Enabled
means a margin warning will sound.

If you enable the margin warning bell and want a margin distance
other than the default 10 characters, type the distance you want in the
Margin Distance text field.

Click Apply to save your change, or OK to save your change and quit
the dialog box.
# Terminal Options Dialog Box


There are two areas that you can control from the "Terminal Options" dialog
box:





Each of these areas contains several option menus from which you can
choose values for a particular option.

Any changes made in the Terminal Options dialog box apply only to thedttermwindow from which you accessed the dialog box.
# Keyboard Control


You can control four aspects of your keyboard when usingdttermby
setting values from thedttermTerminal
Options dialog box:








# To Change Cursor Key Mode
cursor key mode

Cursor Key Mode (see"Cursor Keys, VT220 Mode")
is either Normal (the default) or Application. In Normal
mode, the cursor keys move the cursor in the specified direction. In
Application mode, the cursor keys generate escape sequences that the
application uses for its own purpose.

Choose Terminal from the Options Menu in thedttermwindow.

Click the options menu button next to
"Cursor Key Mode" in the Keyboard Control Section of the Terminal Options
dialog box.

Drag the pointer to the mode you want.

Click Apply to save your
changes, or OK to save your changes and quit the dialog box.
# To Change Keypad Mode
keypad mode

Keypad Mode is either Numeric (the default) or Application (see"Auxiliary Keypad, ANSI Mode"). In Numeric
mode, when keys on the numeric keypad are pressed, the corresponding
numeral is displayed in thedttermwindow. In Application mode, the
key presses generate escape sequences that the application uses for its own
purpose.

Choose Terminal from the Options Menu in thedttermwindow.

Click the options menu button next to
"Keypad Mode" in the Keyboard Control Section of the Terminal Options
dialog box.

Drag the pointer to the mode you want.

Click Apply to save your
changes, or OK to save your changes and quit the dialog box.
# To Change Newline Sequence


The Newline Sequence option lets you choose from Return Only (the default)
or Return/Line Feed. The former option generates only a carriage return, while
the latter option generates both a carriage return and a line feed.

Choose Terminal from the Options Menu in thedttermwindow.

Click the options menu button next to
"Newline Sequence" in the Keyboard Control Section of the Terminal Options
dialog box.

Drag the pointer to the mode you want.

Click Apply to save your
changes, or OK to save your changes and quit the dialog box.
# To Change User Function Keys


The User Function Keys option allows you to have the user function keys
locked or unlocked (the default).

Choose Terminal from the Options Menu in thedttermwindow.

Click the options menu button next to
"User Function Keys" in the Keyboard Control Section of the Terminal Options
dialog box.

Drag the pointer to the mode you want.

Click Apply to save your
changes, or OK to save your changes and quit the dialog box.
# Screen Control
Screen Control

You have control of three aspects of screen control in adttermwindow:






# Screen Control Options

# To Change 132-Column Switching


The 132 Column Switching option allows you to toggle this capability. The
default is Disabled. When disabled and an application switches to 132
columns, nothing happens. When enabled and an application switches to 132
columns, thedttermwindow automatically enlarges to display 132 columns.

This option corresponds to the followingdttermcommand-line options
and resource:

"-132"(command-line option)

"+132"(command-line option)

"c132"(resource)

Choose Terminal from the Options Menu in thedttermwindow.

Click the options menu button next to
"132 Column Switching" in the Screen Control Section of the Terminal Options
dialog box.

Drag the pointer to the mode you want.

Click Apply to save your
changes, or OK to save your changes and quit the dialog box.
# To Change End-of-Line Wrapping


The End-of-Line Wrapping option allows you to toggle this capability. The
default is Enabled. When enabled, characters automatically wrap to the
next line when the end-of-line is reached. When disabled, no wrapping
occurs.

This option corresponds to the followingdttermcommand-line options
and resource:

"-aw"(command-line option)

"+aw"(command-line option)

"autoWrap"(resource)

Choose Terminal from the Options Menu in thedttermwindow.

Click the options menu button next to
"End-of-line Wrapping" in the Screen Control Section of the Terminal Options
dialog box.

Drag the pointer to the mode you want.

Click Apply to save your
changes, or OK to save your changes and quit the dialog box.
# To Change Reverse End-of-Line Wrapping
Reverse End-of-Line Wrapping

The reverse End-of-Line Wrapping option allows you to toggle this capability.
The default is Disabled. When enabled, backspace characters automatically
wrap to the
next higher line when the end-of-line is reached. When disabled, no wrapping
occurs.

This option corresponds to the followingdttermcommand-line options
and resource:

"-rw"(command-line option)

"+rw"(command-line option)

"reverseWrap"(resource)

Choose Terminal from the Options Menu in thedttermwindow.

Click the options menu button next to "Reverse End-of-line Wrapping"
in the Screen Control Section of the Terminal Options
dialog box.

Drag the pointer to the mode you want.

Click Apply to save your
changes, or OK to save your changes and quit the dialog box.