Developing an ApplicationThis chapter presents information specific to developing a Common Desktop
Environment application, such as naming conventions and other guidelines.
It introduces levels of integration, which are the guidelines for determining
the desktop functionality to incorporate into your application to make it
increasingly integrated with the desktop. It also provides an overview of
the Application Builder, a tool to simplify Common Desktop Environment application
development.Levels of Desktop Integrationdesktopintegration, levels ofintegrationlevels ofapplication developmentlevels of integrationUsers can run anyX-based applicationsX11-based application from a shell command line in the Common
Desktop Environment. If you want to integrate your application into the desktop,
however, there are guidelines for you to follow. The Common Desktop Environment
defines three levels of integration to give you maximum flexibility in designing
your application or porting an existing application:Basic Integration&mdash;Enables your application to be launched from the desktop.
You donotneed to change your application code to perform
basic integration. See,
for more information.basic integrationlevels of integrationbasicRecommended Integration&mdash;Enables
your application to enhance its level of consistency with the desktop. See, for more information.recommended integrationlevels of integrationrecommendedOptional Integration&mdash;Enables
you to leverage services provided by the desktop for achieving specialized
tasks. See,
for more information.optional integrationlevels of integrationoptionalFor more information on all three levels of integration, see theProgrammer's Guide.Basic Integration is also discussed in theAdvanced User's and System Administrator's Guide.Desktop Naming Conventionsdesktopnaming conventionsnaming conventionsdesktopconventions, desktop namingapplication developmentdesktop naming conventions <$startrange>The Common Desktop Environment uses naming conventions similar to those
used by X and Motif. Desktop clients, desktop libraries, and other desktop
components share a common prefix for externally visible names:dt,Dt, orDT. Private desktop
structures, functions, and defines (found in the Common Desktop Environment
code; not for developer use) have an_dt,_Dt, or_DTprefix.lists the desktop naming conventions.Desktop Naming Conventions