# DtEditorInvokeSpellDialog
library call`DtEditorInvokeSpellDialog`display the DtEditor widget dialog for checking text for spelling errorsDtEditorInvokeSpellDialogDtEditor functionsDtEditorInvokeSpellDialog#include <Dt/Editor.h>DtEditorErrorCode`DtEditorInvokeSpellDialog`Widgetwidget
## DESCRIPTION


The`DtEditorInvokeSpellDialog`function displays the Spell dialog for the DtEditor widget.
This dialog displays
the list of unrecognized or misspelled words from the widget's text.
Users can search for and replace misspelled words
with the Spell dialog.
The list of misspelled words is automatically generated by filtering the
text for the DtEditor widget through the filter specified by the`DtNspellFilter`resource when`DtEditorInvokeSpellDialog`is called.
For a complete description of the Spell dialog and
the`DtNspellFilter`resource, see
&cdeman.DtEditor;.

The`widget`argument specifies the DtEditor widget ID.

For a complete definition of the DtEditor widget and its associated resources, see
&cdeman.DtEditor;.
## RETURN VALUE


Upon successful completion, the`DtEditorInvokeSpellDialog`function returns`DtEDITOR_NO_ERRORS`if the widget successfully executed the spell filter; otherwise,
it returns one of the following:

* **DtEDITOR_SPELL_FILTER_FAILED** 

If it cannot successfully execute the filter specified by the`DtNspellfilter`resource.
* **DtEDITOR_NO_TMP_FILE** 

If it cannot create a temporary file in the directory returned bytmpnam(3S).

## SEE ALSO


&cdeman.Dt.Editor.h;, &cdeman.DtEditor;,tmpnam(3S).