Internationalization and the Common Desktop EnvironmentMultiple environments may exist within a common open system for support
of different national languages. Each of these nationallocalesdefinitionenvironments
is called alocale,which considers the language, its
characters, fonts, and the customs used to input and format data. The Common
Desktop Environment is fully internationalized such that any application
can run using any locale installed in the system.Locale Managementlocale managementdescriptionFor the desktop, most single-display clients operate in a single locale
that is determined at run time from the setting of the environment variable,
which is usually $LANG. The Motif library (libXm) can only support a single
locale that is used at the time each widget is instantiated.changing the localeChanging the locale after
the Motif library has been initialized may cause unpredictable behavior.All internationalized programs shouldsetting the
localeset the locale desired by the user as defined
in the locale environment variables. For programs using the desktop toolkit,
the programs call theXtSetLanguageProc()function prior to calling any toolkit initialization function; for example,XtAppInitialize(). This function does all of the initialization
necessary prior to the toolkit initialization. For nondesktop programs, the
programs call thesetlocale()function to
set the locale desired by the user at the beginning of the program.localesenvironment variablesLocale environment variables (for example,LC_ALL,LC_CTYPE, andLANG) are used to control the environment. Users should
be aware that theLC_CTYPEcategory of the
locale is used by the X and Motif libraries to identify the locale- specific
features used at run time. Yet, theLC_MESSAGEScategory is used by the message catalog services to load locale-specific
text. Refer tofor more information. Specifically, the fonts and input method loaded by
the toolkit are determined by the setting of theLC_CTYPEcategory.String encoding (for example, ISO8859-1 or Extended UNIX Code (EUC),
in an application's source code, resource files, and User Interface Language
(UIL) files) should be the same as the code set of the locale where the application
runs. If not, code conversion is required.All components are shipped as a single, worldwide executable and are
required to support the R5 sample implementation set of locales: US, Western/Eastern
Europe, Japan, Korea, China, and Taiwan.Applications should be written so that they are code-set-independent
and include support for any multibyte code set.The following are the functions used forlocale
managementfunctions usedlocale
management:XtSetLanguageProc()setlocale()XSupportsLocale()XSetLocaleModifiers()font managementchoosing correct fontsFont ManagementWhen renderingfontsrendering
for an X Windows clienttext in an X WindowsTMclient, at least two aspects are sensitive to internationalization:Obtaining thetext, obtaining localizedlocalized text itselfSelecting the one or more fonts that contain all
the glyphs needed to render the characters in the localized text.describes how to choose
the correct fonts to render localized text.Matching Fonts to Character SetsA fontfontsmatching to character
setscontains a set of glyphs used to render the characters
of alocalesfonts forlocale. However, you may also want to do the following for a
given locale:Determine the fonts neededSpecify the necessary fontsDetermine the charset of a font in a resource fileChoose multiple fonts per localeThe last two fields of a fontX Logical Font Description
(XLFD)identifying glyphsXFLD
identify whichfontsglyphs contained
inglyphs are contained in a font and which value
is used to obtain a specific glyph from the set. These last two fields identify
the encoding of the glyphs contained in the font.For example:-adobe-courier-medium-r-normal--24-240-75-75-m-150-iso8859-1The last two fields of thisX Logical Font Description
(XLFD)name fieldsXLFD name areiso8859and1. These fields
specify that the ISO8859-1 standard glyphs are contained in the font. Further,
it specifies that thefontscharacter
code valuescharacter code values of the ISO8859-1
standard are used to index the corresponding glyph for each character.The font charset used by the application to render data depends on the
locale you select. Because the font charset of the data changes is based
on the choice of locale, the font specification must not be hardcoded by
the application. Instead, it should be placed in anapp-defaultsfile, allowing localized versions of theapp-defaults fileapp-defaultsfile to be created.Further, the font should be specified as a fontset. Afontsetis an Xlib concept in which an XLFD is used to specify the fonts.
The font charset fields of the XLFD are specified by the Xlib code that creates
the fontset and fills in these fields based on the locale that the user has
specified.For many languages (such as Japanese, Chinese, and Korean), multiple
font charsets are combined to support single encoding. In these cases, multiple
fonts must be opened to render the character data. Further, the data must
be parsed into segments that correspond to each font, and in some cases,
these segments must be transformed to convert the character values into glyphs
indexes. TheXFontset, which is a collection
of all fonts necessary to render character data in a given locale, also deals
with this set of problems. Further, a set of rendering and metric routines
are provided that internally take care of breaking strings into character-set-consistent
segments and transforming values into glyph indexes. These routines relieve
the burden of the application developer, who needs only the user fontsets
and the Xlib rendering and metric application program interfaces (APIs).For more information on matching fonts to character sets, refer to`DtStdInterfaceFontNames`(1,5). Also note that if your CDE
provides the set of Standard Application Font Names, you can use a locale-independent
resource.Font ObjectsThis section describes the following font objects:Font setsFontsRender tablesFont SetsGenerally, all internationalized programs expecting to draw localized
text using Xlib are required to use anXmFontSetfor specifying the locale- dependent fonts. Specific fonts within a font set
should be specified using XLFD naming conventions without the charset field
specified. The resource name for anXFontsetis*fontSet. Refer tofor
a list of font resources.Applications directly using Xlib to render text (as opposed to usingXmStringfunctions or widgets) may take advantage of the
string-to-fontSet converter provided by Xt. For example, the following code
fragment shows how to obtain a fontset when using Xt and when not using Xt:/* pardon the double negative... means &ldquo;If using Xt...&rdquo; */
#ifndef NO_XT
typedef struct {
     XFontSet fontset;
     char *foo;
} ApplicationData,  *ApplicationDataPtr;
static XtResource my_resources[] = {
   { XtNfontSet, XtCFontSet, XtRFontSet, sizeof (XFontSet),
   XtOffset (ApplicationDataPtr, fontset), XtRString,
   &ldquo;*-18-*&rdquo;}}
#endif /* NO_XT */
...
#ifdef NO_XT
fontset = XCreateFontSet (dpy, &ldquo;*-18-*&rdquo;, &amp;missing_charsets,
   &amp;num_missing_charsets. &amp;default_string);
if (num_missing_charsets > 0) {
   (void) fprintf(stderr, &ldquo;&amp;s: missing charsets.\n&rdquo;,
          program_name);
   XFreeStringList(missing_charsets);
}
#else
XtGetApplicationResources(toplevel, &amp;data, my_resources,
    XtNumber(my_resources), NULL, 0);
fontset = data.fontset;
#endif /* NO_XT */FontsInternationalized programsfontslimitations with internationalized programsshould
avoid using fonts directly, that is,XFontStruct,
unless they are being used for a specific charset and a specific character
set. Use ofXFontStructmay be limiting if
the server you are connecting to does not support the specific charsets needed
by a locale. The resource name for anXFontStructis*font.Render TablesFor information on render tables, refer to &MotifProgGd;.Font Set and Render Table Syntaxshows the syntax for afontssyntax for a fontsetfont set
and render table.Font Set and Render Table SyntaxResource TypeXLFD SeparatorTerminatorFontEntry Separator*fontSet:(Xlib)commaNoneNone*renderTable:(Motif)semicoloncoloncommaHere are some examples offontsresource specificationsfont resource specifications:app_foo*renderTable: -adobe-courier-medium-r-normal--24-240-75-75-m-\
150-*:The preceding renderTable specifies a fontset, consisting of one or
more 24-point Adobe Courier fonts, as appropriate for the user's locale.app_foo*renderTable: -adobe-courier-medium-r-normal--18-*; *-gothic-\
*-18-*:This renderTable specifies a fontset consisting of an 18-point Courier
font (if available) for some characters in the users data, and an 18-point
Gothic font for the others.font managementlisting of
functionsFont and Render Table FunctionsThe following Xlib font management API functions are available:XCreateFontSet()XLocaleOfFontSet()XFontsOfFontSet()XBaseFontNameListOfFontSet()XFreeFontSet()The following Motif Render Table API functions are available:XmRenderTableAddRenditions()XmRenderTableCopy()XmRenderTableCvtFromProp()XmRenderTableCvtToProp()XmRenderTableFree()XmRenderTableGetRendition()XmRenderTableGetRenditions()XmRenderTableGetTags()XmRenderTableRemoveRenditions()Font CharsetsTo improve basic interchange,fontsorganizationfonts are organized according to the standard
X- Consortium font charsets.Default Font Set Per Language GroupSelecting base font names of a font set associated with a developer's
language is usually easy because the developer is familiar with the language
and the set of fonts needed.Yet, when selecting the base font names of a font set for various locales,
this task can be difficult because an XLFD font specification consists of
15 fields. For localized usage, the following fields are critical for selecting
font sets:FAMILY_NAME%FWEIGHT_NAME%WSLANT%SADD_STYLE%ASPACING%SPThis simplifies the number of fields, yet the possible values for each
of these fields may vary per locale. The actual point size (POINT_SIZE) may
vary across platforms.Throughout this documentation, the following convention should be used
when specifying localized fonts:-dt-%F-%W-%S-normal-%A-*-*-*-%SP-*The following describes theminimumset of recommended values for each field to be used within the desktop for
the critical fields when specifying font sets in resource (app-defaults) files.Latin ISO8859-1 FontsFOUNDRY`dt'FAMILY_NAME`interface user' `interface system'
`application'WEIGHT_NAMEmedium or boldSLANTr or iADD_STYLEsans or serifSPACINGp or mOther ISO8859 FontsThe same values defined for ISO8859-1 are recommended.JIS Japanese FontFOUNDRY`dt'FAMILY_NAMEinterface user, interface system, application,
Gothic or MinchoWEIGHT_NAMEmedium or boldSLANTrADD_STYLE*SPACINGmKSC Korean FontFOUNDRY`dt'FAMILY_NAMEinterface user, interface system, application,
Totum or PathangWEIGHT_NAMEmedium or boldSLANTrADD_STYLE*SPACINGmThe FAMILY_NAME values may change depending on the official romanization
of the two common font families in use. As background, Totum corresponds
to fonts typically shipped as Gothic, Kodig, or Dotum; Pathang corresponds
to fonts typically shipped as Myungo or Myeongjo.CNS Traditional Chinese FontFOUNDRY`dt'FAMILY_NAMEinterface user, interface system, application,
Sung and KaiWEIGHT_NAMEmedium or boldSLANTrADD_STYLE*SPACINGmGB Simplified Chinese FontFOUNDRY`dt'FAMILY_NAMEinterface user, interface system, application,
Song and KaiWEIGHT_NAMEmedium or boldSLANTrADD_STYLE*SPACINGmlocalized textdrawing simpleDrawing Localized TextThere are several mechanisms provided to render a localized string,
depending on the Motif or Xlib library being used. The following discusses
the interfaces that are recommended for internationalized applications. Yet,
it is recommended thatalllocalized data be externalized
from the program using the simple text. For more information on this subject,
refer toXlib &mdash; C Language Interface.Simple TextThe following Xlib multibyte (char*) drawing functions
are available for internationalization:XmbDrawImageString()XmbDrawString()XmbDrawText()The following Xlib wide character (wchar_t*) drawing
functions are available for internationalization:XwcDrawImageString()XwcDrawString()XwcDrawText()The following Xlib multibyte (char*) font metric
functions are available for internationalization:XExtentsOfFontSet()XmbTextEscapement()XmbTextExtents()XmbTextPerCharExtentsThe following Xlib wide character (char_t*) font
metric functions are available for internationalization:XExtentsOfFontSet()XwcTextEscapement()XwcTextExtents()XwcTextPerCharExtentsXmString (Compound String)For the Motif library,localized textdrawing compoundlocalized text should be inserted
into XmString segments usingXmStringGenerate().
The tag associated with localized text isXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG, which is used to match an entry in a render table.A localized stringlocalized textwriting in resource filescan be written in resource
filesresource fileswriting a localized
stringbecause a compound string specified in resource
files has a locale-encoded segment withXm_FONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG. For example, therenderTableresource in the following example
is automatically associated withXmFONTLIST_DEFAULT_TAG.labelString: Japanese string
*renderTable:-dt-interface system-medium-r-normal-L*-*-*-*-*-*-*:The following set ofXmStringXmString functionsfunctions is recommend for
internationalization:XmStringCreateLocalized()XmStringDraw()XmStringDrawImage()XmStringDrawUnderline()The following set ofXmStringXmString
functionsfunctions isnotrecommend for internationalization because it takes a direction
that may not work with languages not covered:XmStringCreateLtoR()XmStringSegmentCreate()Inputting Localized TextInput forlocalized textinput
methodslocalized text is typically done by using either
the local input method or the network-based input method.Thelocal input methodmeans that the input method
is built in the Xlib. It is typically used for a language that can be composed
using simple rules and that does not require language-specific features.
Thenetwork-based input methodnetwork-based input methodmeans that the actual input method
is provided as separate servers, and Xlib communicates with them through
the XIM protocol to do the language-specific composition.Basic Prompts and DialogsIt is stronglytext inputprompts and dialogsrecommended that applications use
theTextwidget to do all text input.Inputtext inputwithin a
DrawingArea widgetwithin a DrawingArea WidgetMany applications do their own drawing within a widget based on input.
To provide consistency within the desktop environment,XmImfunctions are recommended because the style and geometry
management needed for an input method is managed by theVendorShellwidget class. The application need only worry
about handling key events, focus, and communicating the current input location
within the drawing area. Using these functions requires some basic knowledge
of the underlying Xlib input method architecture, but a developer need only
be concerned with theXmImpieces of information.Application-Specific and Language-Specific Intermediate FeedbacksSome applications may need totext inputintermediate feedbackdirectly display
intermediate feedback during preediting, such as when an application exceeds
the functions supplied by Xlib. Examples of this include for PostScriptTMrendering or using vertical writing.The core Xlib provides the common set of interfaces that allow an application
to display intermediate feedback during preediting. By registering the application's
callbacks and setting the preediting style toXNPreeditCallbacks, an application can get the intermediate preediting data
from the input method and can draw whatever it needs. This means using the OnTheSpot
input method style.Applications intended to do sophisticated language processing may recognize
extensions within a specific XIM implementation and its input method engines.
Such applications are on the leading edge and will require familiarity with
details of the XIM functions.Text and TextField WidgetXmText functionsFor basic prompts and dialogs, theTextorTextFieldwidget is recommended. Besides
resources, all of theXmTextFieldandXmTextfunctions are available for getting
and for setting localized text inside aText[Field]widget.MostXmTextfunctions are based on
the number of characters,noton the number
of bytes. For example, allXmTextPosition()function positions are character positions,
not byte positions. TheXmTextGetMaxLength()function returns the number of bytes. When in doubt, remember that positions
are always in character units.The width of aTextorTextFieldwidget is determined by the resource value ofXmNcolumns. But, this value means the number of the widest
characters in the font set, not the number of bytes or columns. For example,
suppose that you have selected a variable-width font for theTextwidget. The characterimay have a width of 1 pixel, while the characterWmay
have a width of 7 pixels. When a value of 10 is set forXmNcolumns, this is considered a request to make theTextwidget wide enough to be able to display at least 10
characters. So theTextwidget must use the
width of the widest character to determine the pixel width of its core widget.
With this example, it may be able to display 10Wcharacters
in the widget, or 70icharacters. This structure forXmNcolumnsmay cause problems in locales whose code set is
a multibyte and a multicolumn encoding. As such, this value should be set
within a localized resource.The following section identifies the set of functions available for
applications that are used to manage input methods. For applications that
use theTextandTextFieldwidgets, refer to.Character Input within Customized Widgets Not Using Text[Field]text inputin applications without Text widgetWidgetsIn some cases, an application may obtain character input from the user
but does not use aTextFieldorTextwidget to do so. For example, an application using
aDrawingAreawidget may allow the user to
type in text directly into the DrawingArea. In this case, the application
could use the Xlib XIM functions as described in later sections, or alternatively,
the application may use theXmImfunctions
of Motif. TheXmImfunctions allow an
application to connect to and interact with an input method with a minimum
of code. Further, it allows the MotifVendorShellwidget to take care of geometry management for the input method on the application's
behalf. For more information on XmIm functions, refer to &MotifProgGd;.Extracting Localized Textlocalized textextractingAlthough there are differentlocalized textmethods for establishingmethods to localize
an application, the general rule is that any language-dependent information
is outside the application and is stored in separate directories identified
by a locale name.This section describes how the user, the application developer, and
the implementation combine to establish the language environment of the
application. Two general approaches to localizing applications are also discussed.
The following three methods can be used:Resource filesMessage catalogsPrivate filesResource FilesThis is the GUI toolkit mechanism for customizing all sorts of information
about an application. The Intrinsic library (libXt) provides a sophisticated
mechanism for merging the command-line options,extracting
localized textusing resource filesapplication-defined
resources, and user-defined resources. Resource files can be used for extracting
localized text. The difference between resource files and message catalogs
is that the resource database is compiled each time it is loaded. As such,
care should be taken when deciding which strings to place in resource files
and which to place in message catalogs.Also note that the Motif library functions do not depend on the LC_MESSAGE
category when specifying the location from which localized resources are
loaded. Refer to theXtSetLanguageProc()man page for more information.Message CatalogsThis is the traditional operatingextracting localized
textusing message catalogssystem
mechanism for accessing external databases containing localized text. These
functions load a precompiled catalog file that is ready to be accessed. They
also provide defaults within the actual program for cases when no catalogs
may be found.The messaging support is based on both the XPG4 and System V Release
4 (SVR4) interfaces for accessing message catalogs.Private FilesPrivate databases can beextracting localized
textusing private filesused by
applications to provide generic, customized databases for more than just
localization text. Usually, such databases do contain text. It is recommended
that if the database is to be spread out over many files, some run-time indirect
access of localized text be provided. Without this access, localization for
the average user is a difficult effort. Generally, such private file formats
are discouraged by groups doing localization. But problems are reduced if
a tool is provided specifically for localization of text only.Message GuidelinesmessagesguidelinesMessage guidelines foster consistent formatting of message and helphelp information guidelinesinformation. They
also promote creation and maintenance of messages that can be easily understood
by inexperienced English-speaking end users, as well as by inexperienced
translators. Use these guidelines to create message files that are consistent
in language and clear in meaning. Distribution of these guidelines enable
programmers and writers to coordinate their message- writing efforts. Default
messages, external message files, and planned delivery of translatable messages
are required for each executable to fully implement international language
support.Message Extraction Functionsmessagesextraction functionsrequirements for internationalizationOne of the requirements of internationalizing programs (basic commands
and utilities inclusive) is that the messages displayed on the output devices
be in the language of the user. As these programs may be used in many countries
(international locales), the messages must be translated into the various
languages of these countries.There are three sets of message extraction functions in the desktop
environment: XPG4 functions, Xlib functions, and DtMsgLog functions.XPG4/Universal UNIX Messaging Functionsmessagesextraction functionsXPG4 setThe XPG4 message facility consists of several components: message source
files, catalog generation facilities, and programming interfaces. Following
are the XPG4/Universal UNIXTMmessage functions:catopen()catgets()catclose()XPG4 MessagingXPG4 messaging examplesExamplesThere are three parts to this example which demonstrates how to retrieve
a message from a catalog. The first part shows the message source file and
the second part shows the method used to generate the catalog file. The third
part shows an example program using this catalog.Message Source FileThe message catalog can be specified as follows:example.msg file:
$quote &ldquo;
$ every message catalog should have a beginning set number.
$set 1 This is the set 1 of messages
1 &ldquo;Hello world\n&rdquo;
2 &ldquo;Good Morning\n&rdquo;
3 &ldquo;example: 1000.220 Read permission is denied for the file
%s.\n&rdquo;
$set 2
1 &ldquo;Howdy\n&rdquo;Generation of Catalog FileThis file is input to thegencatutility
to generate the message catalogexample.catas follows:gencat example.cat example.msgAccessing the Catalog in a Program#include &lt;locale.h>
#include &lt;nl_types.h>
char *MF_EXAMPLE = &ldquo;example.cat&rdquo;

main()
{
  nl_catd catd;
  int error;

  (void)setlocale(LC_ALL, &ldquo;&rdquo;);

  catd = catopen(MF_EXAMPLE, 0);
     /* Get the message number 1 from the first set.*/

  printf( catgets(catd,1,1,&ldquo;Hello world\n&rdquo;) );
     /* Get the message number 1 from the second set.*/

  printf( catgets(catd, 2, 1,&ldquo;Howdy\n&rdquo;) );
     /* Display an error message.*/

  printf( catgets(catd, 1, 4,&ldquo;example: 100.220
     Permission is denied to read the file %s.\n&rdquo;),
     MF_EXAMPLE);
  catclose(catd);
}Xlib Messaging FunctionsThe following Xlib messagingmessagesextraction functionsXlib setfunctions
provide a similar input/output (I/O) operation to the resources.XrmPutFileDatabase()XrmGetFileDatabase()XrmGetStringDatabase()XrmLocaleOfDatabase()They are described inX Window System, The Complete Reference
to Xlib, Xprotocol, ICCCM, XLFD - X Version 11, Release 6.Xlib Message and ResourceXlib message/resource
facilitiesFacilitiesPart of internationalizing a system environment, toolkit-based application
is not having any locale-specific data hardcoded within the application source.
One common locale-specific item is messages (error and warning) returned
by the application of the standard I/O.In general, for any error or warning messages to be displayed to the
user through a system environment toolkit widget or gadget, externalize the
messages through message catalogs.For dialog messages to be displayed through a toolkit component, externalize
the messages through localized resource files. This is done in the same way
as localizing resources, such as theXmLabelandXmPushButtonclasses'XmNlabelStringresource or window titles.For example, if a warning message is to be displayed through anXmMessageBoxwidget class, theXmNmessageStringresource cannot be hardcoded within the application source
code. Instead, the value of this resource must be retrieved from a message
catalog. For an internationalized application expected to run in different
locales, a distinct localized catalog must exist for each of the locales
to be supported. In this way, the application need not be rebuilt.Localized resource files can be put in the/usr/lib/X11/%L/appdefaultssubdirectories, or they can be pointed to by theXENVIRONMENTenvironment variable. The%Lvariable is replaced with the name of the locale used at run time.Dt Messaging FunctionsmessagesDtMsgLogfunctionsDt messaging functionsThe Dt messaging functions areDtMsgLogMessage(3),DtMsgLogSetHandler(3), andDtMsgLogOpenFile(3).
For more information, refer toCommon Desktop Environment: Programmer's
Guidelocalized resourcesLocalized ResourcesThis section describes which widget andlocalized
resourceswidgetgadgetlocalized resourcesgadgetresources areresourceslocale sensitivelocale-sensitive. The information is organized by
related functionality. For example, the first section describes those resources
that are locale-sensitive for widgets used to display labels or to providebutton resourcespush-buttonresourcesbuttonfunctionality.Labels and Buttonslists the localizedresourcesused as labelsresources that
are used as labels. Many of them are of typeXmString.
The rest are of type color or char*. See theMotif Reference Manualfor detailed
descriptions of these resources. In each case, the application should not
hardcode these resources. If resource values need to be specified by the
application, it should be done with theapp-defaultsfile, ensuring that the resource can be localized.Only the widget class resources are listed here;
subclasses of these widgets are not listed. For example, theXmDrawnButtonwidget class does not introduce any new resources
that are localized. However, it is a subclass of theXmLabelWidgetwidget class; therefore, its accelerator resource,acceleratorTextresource, and so on, are also localized and
should not be hardcoded by an application.Localized ResourcesWidget ClassResource NameCore.*background:1XmCommand*command:XmCommand*promptString:XmFileSelectionBox*dirListLabelString:XmFileSelectionBox*dirTextLabelString:XmFileSelectionBox*fileListLabelString:XmFileSelectionBox*filterLabelString:XmFileSelectionBox*noMatchString:XmLabel[Gadget]*accelerator:XmLabel[Gadget]*acceleratorText:XmLabel[Gadget]*labelString:XmLabel[Gadget]*mnemonic:XmLabel[Gadget]*stringDirection:XmList*stringDirection:XmManager*stringDirection:XmMessageBox*cancelLabelString:XmMessageBox*helpLabelString:XmMessageBox*messageString:XmMessageBox*okLabelString:XmPrimitive*foreground:1XmRowColumn*labelString:XmRowColumn*menuAccelerator:XmRowColumn*mnemonic:XmRowColumn(SimpleMenu*)*buttonAccelerators:XmScale*titleString:XmSelectionBox*applyLabelString:XmSelectionBox*cancelLabelString:XmSelectionBox*helpLabelString:XmSelectionBox*listLabelString:XmSelectionBox*okLabelString:XmSelectionBox*selectionLabelString:XmSelectionBox*textAccelerators:1The foreground and background colors are not localized due to restrictions
in the X protocol that require color names to be limited to the portable
character set. Localized color names are left to applications to provide a
localized database to map to a name encoded with the portable character setNote that theXmRowColumnwidget has
additional string resources that may be localized. These resources are listed
in theXmRowColumnman page, under
the heading &ldquo;Simple Menu Creation Resource Set.&rdquo; As the title
implies, these resources affect onlyRowColumnwidgets created with theXmCreateSimpleMenu()function. The resources affected are:*buttonAccelerators,*buttonAcceleratorText,*buttonMnemonics,*optionLabel, and*optionMnemonic. These
resources are not included inbecause they are rarely
used and apply to RowColumn only when creating a simple menu.list resourcesList ResourcesSeveral widgets allow applications toresourcesfor reading listsset orresourcesfor setting listsread lists of items in the widget.shows which widgets allow this and the resources they use to set or read
these lists. Because the list items may need to be localized, do not hardcode
these lists. Rather, they should be set as resources inapp-defaultsfiles, allowing them to be localized. The type for each
list isXmStringList.Resources Used for Reading ListsWidget ClassResource NameXmList*items:XmList*selectedItems:XmSelectionBox*listItems:Titlelistsresourcesfor setting titlesthelocalized resourcestitles and icon namesresources used for
setting titles and icon names. Normally, an application need only set the*title: and*iconName: resources. The
encoding of each is automatically detected for clients doing proper locale
management. All of these are of type*charorXmString.Resources Used for Setting Titles and Icon NamesWidget ClassResource NameTopLevelShell*iconName:TopLevelShell*iconNameEncoding:1WmShell*title:WmShell*titleEncoding:1XmBulletinBoard*dialogTitle:1This resource should not be set by the application.
If the application callsXtSetLanguageProc,
the default value (None) of this resource will automatically be set, ensuring
that localized text can be used for the title.Text Widgetlists thetext resourcesText[Field]localized resourcestextresources
that are locale-sensitive or about which the developer of an internationalized
application should know.Locale-Sensitive Text[Field] ResourcesWidget ClassResource NameXmSelectionBox*textColumns:1XmSelectionBox*textString:XmText*columns:1XmText*modifyVerifyCallback:XmText*modifyVerifyCallbackWcs:XmText*value:XmText*valueWcs:XmTextField*columns:1XmTextField*modifyVerifyCallback:XmTextField*modifyVerifyCallbackWcs:XmTextField*value:XmTextField*valueWcs:1The *columns resource specifies the initial
width of theText[Field]widget in terms
of the number of characters to be displayed. In the case of a variable width
font or in a locale where the size of a character varies significantly, a
column is the amount of space required to display the widest character in
that locale's character repertoire. For example, a column width of 10 guarantees
that at least 10 characters of the current locale can be displayed; it is
possible (likely) that more than that number of characters can be displayed
in the allocated space.Input Method (Keyboards)lists localizedlocalized resourcescustomizing the
input methodresources forcustomizing
the input methodcustomizing the input method. These
resources allow the user or the application to control the input method that
will be used for the specified locale, the policy to follow when creating
an input context (per shell or per individual widget), and the preedit style
(if applicable and available) that will be used.Localized Resources for Input Method CustomizationWidget ClassResource NameVendorShell*inputMethod:VendorShell*preeditType:VendorShell*verifyPreedit:Layout DirectionThe table that follows shows widgets that may use the*layoutDirectionresource.The layoutDirection ResourceWidget ClassResource NameVendorShell*layoutDirection:XmGadget*layoutDirection:XmMenuShell*layoutDirection:XmPrimitive*layoutDirection:XmManager*layoutDirection:Pixmap (Icon) Resourceslists pixmap resources. In some cases, a different
pixmap may be needed for a given locale.Pixmap ResourcesWidget ClassResource NameCore*backgroundPixmap:WMShell*iconPixmap:XmContainers*collapsedStatePixmap: and *expandedStatePixmap:XmDragIcon*pixmap:XmDragIcon*mask:XmDropSite*animation[Mask|Pixmap]:XmGadget*backgroundPixmap:XmLabel[Gadget]*labelInsensitivePixmap:XmLabel[Gadget]*labelPixmap:XmMessageBox*symbolPixmap:XmPushButton[Gadget]*armPixmap:XmToggleButton[Gadget]*selectInsensitivePixmap:XmToggleButton[Gadget]*selectPixmap:XmToggleButton[Gadget]*indeterminatePixmap:XmIconPixmap*[large|small]IconPixmap:For complete information on these resources, refer to &MotifProgGd;.Font Resourceslists the localized font resources. AllXmRenderTableresources are of typeXmRenderTable. In almost all cases, a fontset should be used when specifying
a rendition table. The only exception is when displaying character data that
does not appear in the character set of the user (for example, displaying
math symbols or dingbats).Localized Font ResourcesWidget ClassResource NameVendorShell*buttonFontList:VendorShell*buttonRenderTable:VendorShell*defaultFontList:VendorShell*labelFontList:VendorShell*labelRenderTable:VendorShell*textFontList:VendorShell*textRenderTable:XmBulletinBoard*buttonFontList:XmBulletinBoard*buttonRenderTable:XmBulletinBoard*labelFontList:XmBulletinBoard*labelRenderTable:XmBulletinBoard*textFontList:XmBulletinBoard*textRenderTable:XmComboBox*renderTable:XmContainer*renderTable:XmLabel[Gadget]*renderTable:XmList*renderTable:XmMenuShell*buttonFontList:XmMenuShell*renderTable:XmMenuShell*defaultFontList:XmMenuShell*labelFontList:XmMenuShell*renderTable:XmText*renderTable:XmScale*renderTable:XmTextField*renderTable:XmIconGadget*renderTable:Operating System Internationalized Functionslists the baseOS internationalized
functionsoperating system internationalized functions
in acommon desktop environmentfunctions found incommon open software environment.Applications should perform proper locale management with the assumption
that a locale may have from 1 to 4 bytes per coded character.Base Operating System Internationalized FunctionsLocale ManagementSingle-byteMultibyteWide CharacterConvert mb <-> wcmbtowcmbstowcswctombwcstombsClassificationisalphais*isalphaisw*wctypeCase MappingtolowertouppertowlowertowupperFormat Miscellaneouslocaleconvnl_langinfoFormat of NumericstrtolstrtodwcstolwcstodwcstoiFormat Time/MonetarystrftimestrptimestrfmonwcsftimeString CopystrcatstrcpystrncatstrncpywcscatwcsncatwcscpywcsncpyString CollatestrcollwcscollwcsxfrmString MiscstrlenmblenwcscmpwcsncmpString SearchstrchrstrcspnstrpbrkstrrchrstrspnstrtokwcschrwcscspnwcspbrkwcsrchrwcsspnwcstokwcswcswcscspnI/O Display Widthwcwidth1wcswidthI/O PrintfprintfvprintfsprintfvsprintfprintfvfprintprintfvprintfsprintfvsprintfrpintfvfprintI/O ScanscanfsscanffscanfscanfsscanffscanfI/O CharactergetcgetsputcputsfgetwcfgetwsfputwcfputwsungetwcMessagegettxtcatopencatgetscatcloseConvert Codeseticonv_openiconviconv_close1These functions are provided for applications
using terminals. Graphical user interface (GUI) applications should not use
these functions; instead, they should use font metric functions listed onto determine spacing.