
# Adding and Administering Applications


Application ManagerdescriptionApplication Manager is the desktop container for applications available to the
user.












# Structure of Application Manager


The top level of Application Manager generally contains directories. Each of
these directories, and its contents, is called anapplication groupsdefinitionapplication group.
# Application groups in Application Manager


The application groups and their contents are gathered from multiple locations
locally and throughout the network.
# Directory Location of Application ManagerApplication Managerfile system location


In the file system, Application Manager is the directory/var/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`login`-`hostname`-`display`.The directory is
created dynamically each time the user logs in.

For example, if userronvlogs in from displaywxyz:0, the Application
Manager directory/var/dt/appconfig/appmanager/ronv-wxyz-0is
created.
# How Application Manager Finds and Gathers Applicationsapplicationsgathering into Application ManagerApplication Managergathering applicationsapplication groupsgathering


Application Manager is built by gathering local and remote application groups.
The application groups are gathered from directories located along theapplication search pathused to gather applicationsapplication search path.

The default application search path consists of these locations:applicationssearch pathsearch pathsapplications

Scope

Location

Built-in

/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`

System-wide

/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`

Personal

`HomeDirectory`/.dt/appmanager

To create the top level of Application Manager, links are created at login time
from the application groups (directories) located in directories on the
application search path to the Application Manager directory/var/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`login`-`hostname`-`display`. The gathering
operation is done by the desktop utilitydtappgather, which is automatically
run by Login Manager after the user has successfully logged in.dtappgather

For example, the desktop provides the built-in application group:/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`/Desktop_Tools

At login time, aApplication Managersymbolic linkssymbolic link is created to:/var/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`login`-`hostname`-`display`/Desktop_Tools

The application search path can include remote directories. This provides a
way to gather application groups from systems located throughout the
network. For more information, see.
# Precedence Rules in Gathering ApplicationsApplication Managerprecedence rulesapplication groupsprecedence


Where duplicates exist along the search path, personal application groups have
precedence over system-wide groups, and system-wide groups have
precedence over built-in groups. For example, if both/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Desktop_Toolsand/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Desktop_Toolsexist, the
application group under/etcwill be the one used.
# Application Groups Provided with the Default Desktopapplication groupsdefault


The uncustomized desktop provides four application groups.

Desktop_Apps

Desktop_Tools

Information

System_Admin
# Example of How Application Groups Are Gatheredapplicationsgathering


shows an Application Manager window containing a variety of
application groups.shows the directories from which the application
groups were gathered.
# A typical Application Manager window

# Source of Application Groups for


`Name`

`Directory Gathered`

CAD_App

/net/ApServA/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/CAD_App

DrawingApp

/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/DrawingApp

Desktop_Apps

/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Desktop_Apps

Desktop_Tools

/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Desktop_Tools

Information

/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Information

System_Admin

/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/System_Admin

MySpreadSheet

`/`users/anna/.dt/appmanager/MySpreadSheet

Media_Tools

/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Media_Tools

If the Information or System_Admin application groups have been customized,
they will be gathered from/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/Cinstead.

The CAD_App group is gathered because a system namedApServAhas been
added to the application search path (see). MySpreadSheet is a personal application
group, available only to useranna.
# Adding Applications to Application Managerapplicationsadding to Application ManagerApplication Manageradding applications


When an application has been added to Application Manager, there is an icon
in an application group that starts that application.

Many applications provide an application group. The application group is a
directory at the top level of Application Manager that contains the application
icon and other files related to the application.

Some applications may not have their own application group. Instead, the icon
to start the application is located in a general application group. For example,
you could create an empty application group named &ldquo;Games&rdquo; that you use as
a container for all the games you install on the system.
# Ways to Add Applications to Application Managerapplicationsways to add


There are two ways to add an application to Application Manager:

Registering the application

Adding an application icon without registering the application
# Registering the Applicationregistrationdefinition


Application registration provides full application integration.

applicationsregistered, definitionA registered application:

Has its own application group.

Has its desktop configuration files gathered under a single location. This
group of desktop configuration files is called theregistration packageregistration package.

May have a registered help volume.

There are two ways an application can become registered:

When you install a desktop-smart application, registration occurs
automatically. See.

An existing application can be registered by creating a registration package.
See.

The use of a registration package makes the application easier to administer on
the desktop. The registration package is created somewhere in the file system
other than the locations used for desktop configuration files.
# Adding the Application without Using a Registration Package.


This is the preferred way to add application when you want Application
Manager to contain only an icon to start the application.

applicationsadding without registeringAn application added without using a registration package:

May have its own application group, but usually has its icon placed in an
existing application group

Has its desktop configuration files placed directly in locations along the
desktop's search paths.

See.
# To Add a Desktop-Smart Application to Application Managerapplicationsdesktop-smartdesktop-smart application


A desktop-smart application is an application that is automatically registered
into Application Manager when the application is installed. The application's
filesets include the registration package required by the desktop.

Install the application using instructions provided with the application.

When installation is complete, double-click Reload Applications in the
Desktop_Tools application group.

Verify that installation is complete:

Open Application Manager and check for the presence of the new
application group.

To open the application, open the application group and double-click the
application's icon.
# To Register an Existing or Non-Desktop Smart Application


This is the preferred way to fully integrate an application into the desktop.

The desktop provides a tool,dtappintegrate, that creates links between the
registration package files and the directories on the desktop search path.

Desktop registration is explained in.
# To Add an Application Icon to an Existing Application Group


This procedure explains how to add an application icon to an existing
application group.

For example, the desktop provides an application group named
System_Admin that has been reserved for various applications and scripts
related to administering systems. If you have a script that users frequently run,
you might want users to be able to run the script by double-clicking an icon in
the System_Admin application group.

Use Create Action to create an action definition for the application.

For more information about Create Action, see.

Create an executable file with the same name as the action name in the
directory for the application group. The content of the file is irrelevant.

For example, if you've created an action named &ldquo;Cleanup&rdquo; that runs a
system administration tool, you would create the executable file:/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`/System_Admin/Cleanup
# Creating and Administering General Application Groupsapplication groupsadministering


A general application is an application group (directory) that is not associated
with one particular application product. For example, the built-in
Desktop_Tools application group is a general group containing icons for a
large number of applications that are related, but not part of a single product.

You can create additional general application groups. For example, you might
want to create a group called Games to group together the various games
available on the system.

A general application group can be system-wide or personal in scope.
# To Create a System-Wide General Application Groupapplication groupssystem-wide


Log in as root.

Create a directory in/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`.

The name of the directory becomes the name of theapplication groupsnamingapplication group.

Double-click Reload Applications in the Desktop_Tools application group.
# To Create a Personal General Application Grouppersonal application groupapplication groupspersonal


Create a directory in`HomeDirectory`/.dt/appmanager.

The name of the directory becomes the name of the application group.

Double-click Reload Applications in the Desktop_Tools application group.
# To Customize a Built-In Application Groupapplication groupscustomizing


Log in as root.

If the application group is located in/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`, copy the application group
to /etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`.

Desktop_Tools application group, modifyingFor example, the following command copies the Desktop_Tools application
group:cp -r /usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C/Desktop_Tools /etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C

The new copy of the application group will have precedence over the built-
in version.

Modify the copy of the application group. For example, you can add new
action files (executable files with the same name as actions).

To see the changes, log out and back in.
# Modifying the Search Path Used To Locate Applicationsapplication search pathreason for modifying


The major reason for modifying the application search path is to add anapplication serversaddingapplication server. When you add an application server to the search path,
Application Manager gathers all the server's system-wide application groups.

For more information on the application search path, see.
# The Default Search Pathapplication search pathdefault


The default application search path includes these directories:

Scope

Search Path Directory

Personal

`HomeDirectory`/.dt/appmanager

System-wide

/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`

Built-in

/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`
# Adding an Application Server to the Application Search Pathapplication search pathmodifying


In addition to modifying the application search path, it may be necessary to
perform additional configuration tasks to enable communication with the
application server. See.
# To Set a System-Wide Application Search Pathapplication search pathsystem-wide


Log in as root.

If the file /etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/0010.dtpathsdoesn't exist,
create it by copying/usr/dt/config/Xsession.d/0010.dtpaths.

Open /etc/dt/Xsession.d/0010.pathsfor editing. Add or edit a line
setting theDTSPSYSAPPHOSTS variablemodifyingDTSPSYSAPPHOSTSvariable:DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=`hostname`:[,hostname]

For example, the following line adds the systemApServAto the application
search path:DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=ApServA:

Inform all users on the system that they must log out and then log back in
for the change to take effect.
# To Set a Personal Application Search Pathapplication search pathpersonal


Open`HomeDirectory`/.dtprofilefor editing.

Add or edit a line setting theDTSPUSERAPPHOSTS variablemodifyingDTSPUSERAPPHOSTSvariable:DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS=`hostname`:[,hostname]

For example, the following line adds the systemsApServBandApServCto
the application search path:DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS=ApServB:,ApServC:

Log out and then log back in.
# General Application Manager AdministrationApplication Managergeneral administration


General Application Manager administration tasks include:

Removing an application

Rereading the database of applications during a session
# To Remove an Applicationapplicationsun-registeringapplicationsremoving


If an application has been registered using thedtappintegratetool, you can
also usedtappintegrateto reverse the process. When an application is
unregistered, its application group is removed from Application Manager, and
its actions, data types, icons, and help are no longer available.

Log in as root.

dtappintegrateremoving applicationRun the command:dtappintegrate -s`app_root`-u
# To Update Application Manager During a SessionApplication Managerupdating


applicationsreloadingYou must rebuild Application Manager if you add applications and want those
changes to take effect immediately.

Open the Desktop_Tools application group and double-click Reload
Applications.

Reload Applications is useful for updating Application Manager when
applications are added to an application server. However,Reload Applications actionReload Applications
does not detect applications that have been removed from an application
server, or applications that have been moved from one location to another.
These changes take effect when the user logs out and back in.
# Changing the Text Editor and Terminal Emulatortext editor, changingterminal emulatorchanging


Both the text editor and terminal emulator applications can be started by
choosing a control in the Front Panel, or by double-clicking an icon in
Application Manager.

These applications are also started by other desktop activities.

The text editor application opens when the user selects a text file in File
Manager and chooses Open from the Selected menu. The default text editor
isdtpad.

A terminal emulator runs when a user chooses Open Terminal from File
Manager's File menu, or when an action opens a terminal emulator window.
The default terminal emulator isdtterm.

You can configure the desktop to use a different text editor or terminal
emulator application in these situations.
# To Change the Default Text Editor or Terminal Emulator


If the change is system-wide, log in as root.

Create an action for the new text editor or terminal emulator application.

You can use the Create Action application.shows a Create
Action window filled in for an application named TextPad. For more
information about Create Action, see.
# Create Action window


Or, you can create the action definition manually; for example:.ACTION TextPad
{
  LABEL        TextPad
  TYPE         COMMAND
  WINDOW_TYPE  NO_STDIO
  EXEC_STRING  /usr/TP/bin/TextPad &percnt;(File)Arg_1&percnt;
  DESCRIPTION  Double-click this icon to start the \
               TextPad application.
}

For information on creating action definitions manually, see.

Place the configuration file containing the new action in the proper
directory:

System-wide:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types

If it doesn't already exist, create the appropriateuser-prefs.dtfile by
copying/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/user-prefs.dtto:user-prefs.dt file

System-wide: the/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`directory

Personal: the`HomeDirectory`/.dt/typesdirectory

Edit the TextEditor or Terminal action in the system-wide or personaluser-prefs.dtfile. Modify theMAP_ACTIONline to map the action to the
new action.

For example, change the line:MAP_ACTION Dtpad

to:MAP_ACTION TextPad

Save theuser-prefs.dtfile.

Double-click Reload Actions in the Desktop_Tools application group to
reload the actions database.