
# Configuring the Desktop in a Network


The desktop is designed to work well in a highly networked environment. The
architecture of the desktop lets system administrators distribute computing
resources throughout the network, including:networkingSee also servers

Applications.

Data files for applications.

Desktop session services (desktop applications such as Login Manager and
File Manager).

Help services. Help data files can be put on a central help server.










# Overview of Desktop Networkingnetworkingoverviewclient-server configuration, See networking


The operating system provides a variety of networking services, including
distributed file systems and remote execution. X servers provide additional
networking capabilities, including access to remote displays and security
services.

The desktop layers a user interface on top of these networking features. The
goals of this interface and its underlying architecture are to make networked
systems:

Easier to use. Users can run applications and access data files without
worrying about where in the network the applications and data are located.

Easier to administer. The desktop provides application integration tools and
networked search paths that make it easier for systems to locate remote data
and applications. In addition the desktop's file-name mapping process
makes it easier to administer complex networks containing numerous
servers.

Flexible. While the administration features of the desktop have been
designed for certain common network situations, the desktop can
accommodate many other customized network configurations.
# Types of Networked Desktop Servicesnetworkingtypes of services


Networking lets a user sitting at a particular display access various computing
services distributed among other systems, such as:

The desktop session and its applications&mdash;for example, Workspace Manager
and File Manager

Other applications

Data files

Networking terminology uses the termserversdefinition`server`to describe a system that
provides computing services to one or more other systems. When a system
receives services from a server, it is called aclientsdefinition`client`of that server.

In a complex network, a system may use services located on a number of
systems throughout the network. Furthermore, a system may act as a
particular type of server (for example, a session server) and may also be a
client (for example, of an application server).
# Typical Network Situations


From a desktop perspective, a typical network configuration may contain some
combination of these major components:

Displays

Where the X server is running

Login/Session serverssessionserverslogin

Where the desktop applications (Login Manager,
Workspace Manager, etc.) run

Application serversserversapplicationapplication serversdefinition

Where other applications run

File serversserversfilefile servers

Where data used by applications is located

One of the most common network configurations involves systems accessing
an application server.illustrates a workstation that uses an
application server. The X server and desktop session are running on the
workstation.
# Application servers provide services to the desktop session


Networks also frequently usefile serversfile servers to store large amounts of data. This
data may be used by applications running on an application server, or by the
desktop applications (for example, File Manager needs access to data files to
display them in the File Manager window).
# Files servers provide data to application servers and session servers


X terminalsobtaining session servicesX terminals run the X server and obtain desktop session services from another
system.
# X terminals get session services from a session server

# Other Networking Situations


The desktop is flexible and can support more complex network configurations.
This usually involves making various services, in addition to file servers,
available to application servers.
# Services required by a desktop application server can be distributed

# Summary&mdash;Types of Serversserverstypes


Display

The system running the X server.

Login and session server

The system running the desktop session (Login
Manager, Session Manager, Window Manager, File
Manager, etc.)

Application server

A system on which an application runs. Also called
theexecution host.

File server

A system on which data files for applications are
stored

Help serverservershelphelp servers

A system on which help data files are stored

(Action) database serveraction servers, See database serversdatabase servers

A system where files containing action and data
type definitions are stored

Icon serverserversiconicon servers

A system on which icon files are stored

The network may include additional servers, such as a password server, mail
server, video server, etc.
# General Steps for Configuring Desktop Networkingnetworkinggeneral configuration steps


There are three general steps for configuring desktop networking:

Configure base operating system network services.

These are the networking services provided by your operating system upon
which the desktop depends. See.

Install and configure desktop networking software and services.

These are the services required by the desktop, regardless of the type of
client or server system being set up. See.

Configure the particular type of server or client.

For example, configuring an application server requires different steps than
configuring a file server. See.
# Configuring Base Operating System Networking for the Desktopnetworkingbase configuration


The desktop requires the following base networking configuration:

Users must have a login account on the session server and on each system
providing desktop services to the session server. The user must have the
same user ID and group ID on all client and server systems.

Systems must have access to remote file systems containing data used by the
session and other applications.

Thelpprint spooler must be configured to access remote printers.

sendmailmust be configured for email services.

X authorization must be set up.
# Providing Login Accounts to Userslogin accounts


This section describes the login account requirements for desktop networking.
# Providing Login Accounts


Users must have a login account on:

All systems providing services to the desktop, including application servers,
file servers, and systems providing networked printers.

All session servers the user may access. Usually, session servers are used
with X terminals.
# Providing Consistent User and Group IDs


UNIX users are identified by a login name and aUIDuser IDnumeric user ID (UID). In a
desktop network, the user should have the same login name and UID on all
client and server systems.

UNIX users are also assigned to one or more login groups. Each group has a
group name and a numeric group IDGIDgroup ID(GID). In a desktop network, all systems
should use consistent group names and group IDs.

For more information, see theid(1) orid(1m) man page.
# Configuring Distributed File System Accessfilesaccess to distributed


The desktop uses NFS for sharing files between systems. You must
identify all the file systems in your network that contain shared files
and ensure that they are correctly mounted on all appropriate systems.file sharingNFSfilesremote accessfilesmounting

Typically, you must provide the following remote file access:

Thehome directoryshareduser's home directory must be shared by all desktop client and server
systems. This is necessary because:

The home directory contains data files that must be accessed by
applications on remote systems. For example, applications using data files
frequently use the home directory as the default data file location.

authentication directorydtspcdauthentication directoryThe home directory is the defaultdtspcdauthentication directory. For
more information about thedtspcd, see.

If users require access to data files that are not in their home directory, these
data files must be shared by all the desktop client and server systems that
operate on the data files.

The desktop installation and configuration directories (/usr/dtand/etc/dt) must be shared by all the desktop client and server systems so
that all of the user's applications access the same desktop configuration files.
# Providing a Networked Home Directoryhome directorynetworked


A desktop network works most effectively when users have a single home
directory that is shared among all client and server systems on the network.

A networked home directory lets users use different systems in the network
without losing personal customizations and configurations. This is because
personal customizations and the information required to restore the previous
session are saved in subdirectories of the home directory.

A common home directory is also required by:

The default X authorization mechanism. See.

The desktop subprocess control daemon, which is involved in launching
remote applications, must be able to write to the user's home directory.
# File-Name Consistencyfilesname consistencyfile-name consistency


You should configure the network so that users can access their data files from
all systems using the same name. This is known as providingfile-name
consistency, and is usually accomplished by creating appropriatesymbolic linksfile-name consistencysymbolic links.
For example you can configure every system so that each user's home
directory is available as/users/`login_name`by creating a symbolic link to the
actual mount location of the directory.
# Configuring Access to Remote Printersprintersremote access


The desktop uses thelp print spoolerlpprint spooler for accessing local or remote printers.
See thelpadmin(1m) man page for information on configuring thelpspooler.

printingtestingBefore attempting to print using the desktop graphical interface, you should
test that you can correctly print to all printers using thelp commandlpcommand.

printersdevice namesIt is highly recommended that you use consistent printer device names. For
example, if a particular printer is known asPostscript1on the system to
which it is directly connected, all other systems accessing the printer remotely
should also use the namePostscript1.
# Configuring Electronic Mailelectronic mail, configuringnetworkingelectronic mail


The desktop mailer usessendmailfor delivering mail between systems. See
thesendmailsendmail(1m) man page for more information on how to configure email
connectivity.

Before attempting to send or receive mail from the desktop, you should test
that you can correctly send and receive mail using themailxmailxcommand.
# Configuring X AuthorizationX authorizationauthorization, XnetworkingX authorization


The desktop uses the default X mechanism for authorizing remote applications
(X clients) to access a local display. The easiest way to configure this is to
provide a networked home directory for each user. This ensures that the
following requirements are met:

The user must have read and write permission to the file`HomeDirectory`/.Xauthority.

The.Xauthorityfile on an application server must contain the &ldquo;magic
cookie&rdquo; for the display on which the application will run.

For more information, see theX(1) orxauth(1) man pages.
# Configuring Desktop Clients and Serversclientsof server, configuringserversconfiguringnetworkingconfiguring clients and servers


This section covers network configuration requirements that are specific to the
desktop&mdash;that is, these capabilities are provided by the desktop rather than by
the base operating system.

The section is divided into two parts:

Configuring login and session services.

Configuring services required by applications and their data. This includes
application, database, icon, file, and help servers and their clients.
# Configuring Login and Session Servicessession servers, See login servers&ltlogin serversconfiguring


A login/session server is a system that supplies desktop services (Login
Manager, Session Manager, File Manager, Window Manager, etc.) to a display
and X server.

Typically, a session server supplies services to X terminals. However, a network
configuration can be set up that concentrates session services on one or more
servers that are accessed by both X terminals and workstations.

The Login Manager is the desktop component responsible for supplying login
services to other displays. Once the user has logged in, the Session Manager is
started for the user.serverssessionX terminalsserverslogin

For information about configuring login/session servers and X terminals, see.
# Configuring Input Method Serversinput method serversconfiguring


An Input Method Server (IMS) is launched by thedtimsstartcommand.dtimsstartis normally invoked automatically
at Xsession startup (user login) by the script/usr/dt/config/Xsession.d/0020.dtims.Depending on the currently selected locale, environment variables,
configuration files, and command-line options,dtimsstartdisplays a selection window from which the user can select the IMS to
use. From the selection window, the user can also request to start an
IMS on a remote system. In this case,dtimsstart:Executes the`DtImsGetRemoteConf`action to retrieve information about IMSs registered on the specified remote systemLists the registered IMSs in the selection windowExecutes the`DtImsRunRemoteIms`action to start the user-selected IMS on the remote systemWhen searching for IMSs on a remote system,dtimsstartretrieves only registered IMSs.
To be registered on a system (local or remote), an IMS
must:Be defined in the entry file for the current locale.
Each locale has its own entry file that lists the IMSs that
support that locale. The location of the locale entry file is/usr/dt/config/ims/<locale_name>.Have its own entry file on the system.
The IMS entry file describes the attributes of an IMS.
The attributes include the supported protocols,
the name of the server on which the IMS runs,
the command line options for the IMS, and an
indication whether the IMS allows remote execution or not.
The location of the IMS entry files is/usr/dt/config/ims/<ims_name>.For descriptions of the file formats, with examples, refer to thedtimsstartman page.To define the hosts on which an IMS can be found, you can configure theimServerHostsapplication resource. This resource (which is
used by the Style Manager when identifying IMSs for user selection) contains a comma-separated
list of host names. For example:*imServerHosts: xylo,expo
# Configuring Other Application-Related Services


This section covers networking requirements common to the desktop:

application serversconfiguringserversapplicationApplication servers

database serversconfiguringserversdatabaseDatabase servers

icon serversconfiguringserversiconIcon servers

help serversconfiguringservershelpHelp servers
# To Configure Desktop Clients and Servers


Provide the operating system network configurations required by the
desktop.

See.

filesrequired for networkingnetworkingfiles required forInstall the desktop or the minimum set of files:

You must install:

The entire Common Desktop Environment runtime file sets

Or, these sets of files:CDE-MIN filesCDE-TT filesCDE-MIN and CDE-TT

Installation and file sets may differ among vendors.

Configure the system for the ToolTalk
filename database server daemonrpc.ttdbserver.filename database serverrpc.ttdbserver

This should happen automatically when the desktop is installed. For more
information, see.

Install and configure the subprocess control daemon (dtspcddtspcd).

This should happen automatically when the desktop is installed. For more
information, see.

filesremote dataMount all required remote data.

Data is considered &ldquo;remote&rdquo; when it is located on a system other than the
system on which the application using the data is running.

For example:

If an application uses data located on a file server, it must mount those
files.

If File Manager icons are located on an icon server, the session server must
mount those files.

If the network uses a help server for desktop help files, the session server
and all application servers must mount the help data.

For more information about mount points, see the next section,.
# Configuring the Mount Point for Remote File Systemsfilesmount pointmount point for remote files


file-name mappingWhen the desktop passes file names from one system to another, it must
transform, ormap, those file names to names that make sense to the destinition
system. This mapping is necessary because a file may be mounted in different
locations on the different systems, and therefore must be accessed using
different names. For example the file /projects/bigonsysAmay be
accessed as/net/sysA/projects/bigonsysB.
# Requirements for File-Name Mapping


To correctly perform this file-name mapping, one of the following must be true:

Themountcommand is used to statically mount file systems. These types of
static mounts are typically configured in a file such as/etc/checklist,/etc/mnttab, or/etc/filesystems.

For file-name mapping to work correctly between systems, file system
mounts must use consistent host names. If a host is known by several names
(for example, aliases, or if the host has more than one LAN address that are
known by different names), you must use the same name and form of the
name for all mounts.

Or, the automounter is used to mount file systems at the default/netmount point.

Or, theautomounterautomounter is used to mount file systems at a location other than/netand the DTMOUNTPOINT environment variable is set to indicate the
mount point. See the next section,.

For information about the automounter, see theautomount(1m) man page.
# Setting a Value forDTMOUNTPOINT variablesettingDTMOUNTPOINT


DTMOUNTPOINT variableprocesses that useYou must set the DTMOUNTPOINT environment variable if both of the
following conditions are true:

The automounter is used to mount file systems.

And, remote file systems are mounted at a location other than/net.

DTMOUNTPOINT variableprocesses requiringDTMOUNTPOINT must be set for processes, including:

The user's desktop processes that are automatically started when the user
logs in, such as the Workspace Manager (dtwm) and File Manager (dtfile)

System processes such asrpc.ttdbserverrpc.ttdbserveranddtspcdthat are started by
mechanisms such asinetd

Applications that are started by the desktop on local or remote systems

Applications that are started by the user from a shell command line

To set DTMOUNTPOINT for all of these processes&rdquo;

Edit the file/etc/inetd.conf:inetd.conf

Find thedtspcddtspcdentry and add:-mount_point`mount_point`

Find therpc.ttdbserverentry and add:-m`mount_point`

For example if the automounter is being used with a mount point of/nfs,
the entries in/etc/inetd.confare:dtspc stream tcp nowait root /usr/dt/bin/dtspcd /usr/dt/bin/dtspcd -mount_point /nfs
rpc stream tcp wait root /usr/dt/bin/rpc.ttdbserver 100083 1 rpc.ttdbserver -m /nfs

Perform the procedure on your system that rereads/etc/inetd.conf. For
more information, see theinetd(1m) man page.

DTMOUNTPOINT variableinherited by usersSet DTMOUNTPOINT such that its value is inherited by user logins.

This can be done by setting the variable in/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d.
For more information on setting environment variables, see.
# Configuring the Subprocess Control Daemon


The desktopsubprocess control service, See SPC<$nopage>subprocess control (SPCSPC) service provides client/server command
execution.

The desktopsubprocess control daemon, See dtspcd<$nopage>subprocess control daemon (dtspcddtspcd) is used by the desktop to
launch remote applications. It is aninetdaemon that accepts requests from
remote clients to execute commands. For more information on how to
configureinetdaemons, see theinetd.conf(1m) man page.

The desktop action invocation library uses the SPC service to invoke remote
actions.
# To Configuredtspcdconfiguringdtspcd


Confirm thatdtspcis properly registered in both/etc/servicesand/etc/inetd.conf. See thedtspcd(1m) man page.

HP-UX only: Ensure that/usr/adm/inetd.secis properly configured.
See theinetd.secinetd.sec(4)man page.
# SPCsecuritySPC Security


Authentication for the subprocess control service is based on file system
authentication. Thedtspcdmust have access to anauthentication directorythat
is also mounted by all SPC client systems.

By default thedtspcdauthentication directoryauthentication directorydtspcdauthentication directory is the user's home directory.
However, you can configure thedtspcdto use a different location by setting
the-auth_diroption in the/etc/inetd.confdirectory. See thedtspcd(1m) man page for more information.

Because SPC authentication is based on file system authentication, the SPC
service is only as secure as your distributed file system. If you are using the
desktop in a network where you do not trust the distributed file system, you
may wish to disable thedtspcd. To disable thedtspcd, comment out thedtspcentry in/etc/services.
# environment variablesremote executionConfiguring Environment Variables for Remote Execution


When the desktop uses an action to start an application on a remote system,
the user's environment variables are copied to the remote system and placed in
the environment of the application.

By default, some of the environment variables are altered before they are
copied to the remote system. You can configure both the action invocation
component and the subprocess control service of the desktop to perform
additional environment variable processing before the variables are placed into
the application's environment.

For more information on the default configuration and how to modify it,
see thedtactionfile(4)anddtspcdenv(4)man pages.
# Configuring the ToolTalk Database ServerToolTalkDatabase Server, See rpc.ttdbserver


One component of ToolTalk is the ToolTalk database server,/usr/dt/bin/rpc.ttdbserver.

The ToolTalk database server is used by the ToolTalk messaging service and for
file-name mapping. It is usually registered in/etc/inetd.confwhen the
desktop is installed and needs no additional configuration.

For more information on the ToolTalk database server and its configuration
options, see therpc.ttdbserver(1m) man page.
# Configuring the ToolTalk Message ServerToolTalk Message Server, See ttsession


The ToolTalk message server isttsession.
By default, it does not require any
configuration; it is started by theXessionscript during login.

See thettsessionman page for more information on the ToolTalk message
server and its configuration options.ttsession
# Configuring theCalendar daemonCalendar Daemon


One component of the Calendar application is the Calendar daemonrpc.cmsdrpc.cmsd. It is usually registered in/etc/inetd.confwhen the desktop is
installed and needs no additional configuration.

For more information on the Calendar daemon and its configuration options,
see therpc.cmsd(1) man page.
# Administering Application Servicesapplication serversadministering


This section covers specific configuration requirements for:

Application servers and their clients

Desktop servers that provide special services&mdash;database servers, icon
servers, and help servers

It also covers networking requirements for two special configurations for
networked applications:

Remote execution hosts

Applications running across file system mounts
# Search Path Environment Variables


The desktop uses a set of environment variables to specify the search path used
to find application desktop configuration files such as the actions and data
types database, help files, and icon files.

For information on how to use the search path environment variables, see,'' or thedtenvvar(5)man page.
# Configuring an Application Server and Its Clientsremote executionconfiguring application server


In the standard application server configuration, the application server
contains all the binary and configuration files associated with the application,
including:

The application executable(s)

Standard application configuration files such as app-defaults, message
catalogs, and shared libraries for that application.

Desktop configuration files:

Action and data type definition files

Icon image files

Desktop help data files
# Standard application server configurationapplication serversstandard configuration

# To Configure an Application Serverapplication serversconfiguring


Provide the operating system network configurations required by the
desktop.

See.

Provide the general desktop configuration required for servers.

See.

Install the application(s).

If an application does not automatically register itself, you must perform the
registration procedure.

See.
# To Configure the Client of an Application Serverapplication serversclient ofapplication serversconfiguring client of


Provide the operating system network configurations required by the
desktop.

See.

Provide the general desktop configuration required for clients.

See.

Add the application server to the application search path on a system-wide
or personal basis:

System-wide

Set the DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS variable in/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/0010.dtpathsDTSPSYSAPPHOSTS variable

Personal

Set the DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS variable in`HomeDirectory`/.dtprofileDTSPUSERAPPHOSTS variable

For example, the following line in
/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/0010.dtpathsadds a system with
hostnameSysAAAandSysBBBto the application search path:DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=SysAAA:,SysBBB:

For more information about setting the application search path, see:




# Configuring Database, Icon, and Help Servicesicon serversconfiguringhelp serversconfiguringdatabase serversconfiguringdatabase serversconfiguringserversactionsserversdata typesserversactionsserversdata typesdata typesserver foractionsserver for


Usually, the action and data type definitions, icons, and help data files
associated with an application are installed onto the same system as the
application.

For example, consider the typical configuration of help data files:

The help files for File Manager are usually located on the session server. The
desktop finds them because the help search path automatically searches the
proper locations on the session server.

The help files for other applications are usually located on the same
application server as the application. The session server finds them because
modifying the application search path automatically modifies the help
search path.

There may be situations in which you want to place database (actions and data
types), help, or icon data elsewhere on the network. For example, if your
network uses multiple session servers, you might want to create a help server
on which all the help data files for desktop applications (File Manager, Style
Manager, etc.) are stored. This conserves disk space because the help files do
not need to be duplicated on each session server.
# To Create a Database, Help, or Icon Serverdatabase serverscreatingicon serverscreatinghelp serverscreating


Provide the operating system network configurations required by the
desktop.

See.

Provide the general desktop configuration required for clients.

See.

Install the database, help, or icon files.

The files can be located anywhere on the system. However, it may be easier
to use the following locations, since these are the directories automatically
searched when a system has been designated an application server.

Database files:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`

Help files:/etc/dt/appconfig/help/`language`

Icon files:/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/`language`

If you are setting up a database server, the actions must be written to specify
where their commands (EXEC_STRINGs) will run. See.
# To Configure the Session Server to Find a Database, Icon, or Help Serverhelp serversclient oficon serversclient ofdatabase serversclient of


Provide the operating system network configurations required by the
desktop.

See.

Provide the general desktop configuration required for clients.

See.

Add the database, icon, or help server to the appropriate search path.

If you placed the data files in the locations specified inof, you can modify the application
search path.

If you placed the data files in other locations, you must modify the specific
search path.

For example, if you placed the help files in directory/etc/dt/helpon
systemSysCCC, you would add the following line to
/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/0010.dtpaths:DTSPSYSHELP=/net/SysCCC/etc/dt/help

For more information about setting search paths, see:








# Special Networked Application Configurations


This section describes how to configure systems to run applications:

Elsewhere than on the system containing the action&mdash;on a remote execution
host

Locally across file system mounts
# Specifying a Remote Execution Hostremote executionwith action remote from application


In the typical application server configuration, the action definition is located
on the same system as the application executable. However,actionsrunning remote applicationsactions can be
written to execute commands on other systems. In this configuration, the
system containing the application is called theexecution hostspecifyingexecution host.EXEC_HOST, See execution host<$nopage>

The action definition may be located on the session server or on a system that
provides action and data type services to the session server&mdash;called adatabase serversdatabase hostdatabase
serverordatabase host.

Action definitions use theEXEC_HOSTfield to specify where their commands
(EXEC_STRINGs) should be run. For example, the following action definition
specifies that anxloadclient be run on a system with host nameSysDDD:ACTION XloadSysDDD
{ TYPE        COMMAND
 EXEC_HOST    SysDDD
 EXEC_STRING  /usr/bin/X11/xload -label SysDDD
}

If theEXEC_HOST fieldmultiple valuesEXEC_HOSTfield specifies more than one host name, then the desktop
tries to execute theEXEC_STRINGon each host in order until it finds one that
can run the action. For example, the followingEXEC_HOSTfield specifies that
the action should first attempt to run theEXEC_STRINGonSysDDD, and,
failing this, trySysEEE.EXEC_HOST  SysDDD,SysEEE

If theEXEC_HOST fielddefault valueEXEC_HOSTfield is not set for an action, it defaults to the value&percnt;DatabaseHost&percnt;. The value of&percnt;DatabaseHost&percnt;is obtained from the
database search path.

For example, suppose the database search path has been modified by adding
the following line to/etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/0010.dtpaths:database search pathaffect on EXEC_HOSTDTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS variableeffect on EXEC_HOSTEXEC_HOST fieldaffected by database search pathDTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS=SysAAA:,/net/SysBBB/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C

SysAAAis specified using the host-qualified syntax&mdash;SysAAA:. An action
definition found using this element of the search path sets the database host toSysAAA. However, an action found using the/net/SysBBB&hellip; portion of the
search path sets the database host to the local system because the syntax does
not include the host qualifier.
# To Configure the Remote Execution Hostexecution hostconfiguring


Provide the operating system network configurations required by the
desktop.

See.

Provide the general desktop configuration required for servers.

See.

Ensure that the applications are properly installed and configured for local
execution.
# To Configure the System Containing the Action Definition


Provide the operating system network configurations required by the
desktop.

See.

Provide the general desktop configuration required for servers.

See.

Create and install the action definitions and application groups.

Seeand.
# To Configure the Session Server


Provide the operating system network configurations required by the
desktop.

See.

Provide the general desktop configuration required for clients.

See.

Modify the actions search path to include the database host.

See.

Modify the application search path to include the execution host.

See.
# Running Applications Locallymounts,running applications acrossapplicationsrunning locally across mountsnetworkingrunning applications across mounts


The standard application server configuration runs applications on the
application server. Sometimes it is desirable to have the application installed
on a remote system but executed locally on the session server.
# Execution across mount points

# To Configure the Application Server


No special configuration is required.
# To Configure the Session Server


Modify the application search path. Use the local absolute path to the
application.

For example, you might use the following variable definition to find an
application registered onsysAAA:DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS=/net/SysAAA/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/C

The session server must be able to access the application's configuration files,
such as app-defaults, message catalogs, and shared libraries.