
# Desktop Search Paths


The desktop uses search paths to locate applications and their associated
desktop files.help search pathSee also search pathactionssearch path, See database search path















search pathsdefined by desktopThe desktop provides five search paths, described in.
# Desktop Search Paths


`Search Path`

`Description`

Applications

Used to locate applications. Application Manager uses the
application search path to dynamically populate its top level
when a user logs in.

Database

Used to specify additional locations for action and data type
definition files (*.dtfiles) and Front Panel files (*.fpfiles).

Icons

Used to specify additional locations for icons.

Infolib

Used to specify additional locations for information libraries.

Help data

Used to specify additional locations for desktop help data.

The search paths can include both local and remote directories. Thus, the
search paths play an important role in the networking architecture of the
desktop. For example, a system finds applications on an application server
because that application server is listed in the application search path.

When a search path includes a remote location, you must configure remote file
access to the location. For more information, see.
# Desktop Search Paths and Their Environment Variables


The desktop search paths are created at login by the desktop utilitydtsearchpath. Thedtsearchpathutility uses a combination of
environment variables and built-in locations to create the search paths.

search pathsinput variablesinput variablesThe environment variables thatdtsearchpathreads are calledinput variables.
These are variables set by the system administrator or end user. The input
variables use the naming conventionDTSP*.

Whendtsearchpathruns at login time, it assembles the values assigned to
these variables, adds built-in locations, and creates values foroutput variables.
There is an output variable for each search path.search pathsoutput variablesoutput variables
# Desktop Search Path Environment Variablessearch pathsenvironment variablesenvironment variablessearch path


`Search Path For:`

`Output Environment Variable`

`System-Wide Input Variable`

`Personal Input Variable`

Applications

DTAPPSEARCHPATH variabledefinitionDTAPPSEARCHPATH variabledefinitionDTAPPSEARCHPATH

DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS variabledefinitionDTSPSYSAPPHOSTS

DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS variabledefinitionDTSPUSERAPPHOSTS



Actions, data types, and Front Panel definitions

Datatabase

DTDATABASESEARCHPATH variabledefinitionDTDATABASESEARCHPATH

DTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS variabledefinitionDTSPSYSDATABASEHOSTS

DTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS variabledefinitionDTSPUSERDATABASEHOSTS

Icons

XMICONSEARCHPATH, XMICONBMSEARCHPATHXMICONSEARCHPATH variabledefinitionXMICONBMSEARCHPATH variabledefinition

DTSPSYSICONDTSPSYSICON variabledefinition

DTSPUSERICONDTSPUSERICON variabledefinition

Infolibs

DTINFOLIBSEARCHPATHDTINFOLIBSEARCHPATH variabledefinition

DTSPSYSINFOLIBDTSPSYSINFOLIB variabledefinition

DTSPUSERINFOLIBDTSPUSERINFOLIB variabledefinition

Help data

DTHELPSEARCHPATHDTHELPSEARCHPATH variabledefinition

DTSPSYSHELPDTSPSYSHELP variabledefinition

DTSPUSERHELPDTSPUSERHELP variabledefinition

Components use the values of the output variables. For example, Application
Manager uses the value of the application search path (DTAPPSEARCHPATH)
to locate application groups.
# Setting the Value of a Search Pathsearch pathssetting


You can modify the search paths on a system-wide or personal basis.
Modifications are done by setting values for the system-wide or personal input
variables. Any modifications you make are added to the built-in search path
locations.
# To See the Current Value for a Search Path (Output Variable)search pathscurrent value


Use thedtsearchpathcommand to display the current values for the
search paths:

To obtain the value for the current (login) user, execute:dtsearchpath -vdtsearchpath

To obtain the value for a different user, execute:dtsearchpath -u`user`

Search path values include these variables:

&percnt;I&percnt;I

Used in DTINFOLIBSEARCHPATH. The name of the default information library.

&percnt;H&percnt;H

Used in DTHELPSEARCHPATH. The help volume name.

&percnt;B&percnt;B

Used in XMICONSEARCHPATH. The base name of an icon file.

&percnt;M&percnt;M

Used in XMICONSEARCHPATH. The size of the icon file (.l,.m,.s,.t)

&percnt;L&percnt;L

Value of the LANG environment variable.
# To Make Personal Modifications to a Search Path


Open`HomeDirectory`/.dtprofilefor editing.

Add or edit a line defining a value for the personal input variable.

For example, the following line adds a location to the user's personal
application search path:DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS=/projects1/editors

To make the change take effect, log out and back in.
# To Make System-Wide Modifications to a Search Path


Log in as root.

If the file /etc/dt/config/Xsession.d/0010.dtpathsdoesn't exist,
create it by copying/usr/dt/config/Xsession.d/0010.dtpaths.

Open /etc/dt/Xsession.d/0010.pathsfor editing. Add or edit a line
defining a value for the system-wide input variable.

For example, the following line adds a location to the system-wide help
search path:DTSPSYSHELP=/applications/helpdata

Inform all users on the system that they must log out and back in for the
change to take effect.
# Application Search Pathapplication search pathdefinitionsearch pathsapplications


The application search path is the primary search path used by the desktop to
locate applications on the local system and on application servers throughout
the network.

When locations are added to the application search path, the other search paths
(database, icon, and help) are automatically updated to reflect the
corresponding locations for that data; thus, the application search path
provides relatively simple administration for applications and their desktop
configuration files. See.
# Default Application Search Pathapplication search pathdefault


The default application search path includes personal, system-wide, and built-
in locations. The default`language`isC.

Personal location

`HomeDirectory`/.dt/appmanager

System-wide location

/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`languag`e

Built-in location

/usr/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`languag`e
# Application Search Path Environment Variablesenvironment variablesapplication search pathapplication search pathenvironment variables


The application search path is assembled from the built-in locations and the
following input variables:

DTSPSYSAPPHOSTS

System-wide application search path input variable

DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS

Personal application search path input variable

The assembled search path is specified by the output variableDTAPPSEARCHPATH variableassemblingDTAPPSEARCHPATH.
# Syntax for the Application Search Path Input Variablesapplication search pathsyntax


The syntax for the variablesDTSPSYSAPPHOSTS variablesyntaxDTSPSYSAPPHOSTS andDTSPUSERAPPHOSTS variablesyntaxDTSPUSERAPPHOSTS
is:`VARIABLE`=`location`[,`location`...]

where`location`can have the syntax:

/`path`

Specifies a directory on the local (session server) system. Use
this syntax to add a local directory.

`hostname`:

Specifies the system-wide directory/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`language`on system`hostname`. Use this syntax to add an application server.

`hostname`:/`path`

Specifies a directory on the remote system`hostname`.

localhost:

The local system-wide location. This keyword is used
to alter the precedence of the local system-wide
location. See.
# How the Value of the Application Search Path Is Assembledapplication search pathassembling


The value of the application search path (DTAPPSEARCHPATH variableassemblingDTAPPSEARCHPATH) is created by
assembling the following locations, listed in order of precedence:

Locations specified using the DTSPUSERAPPHOSTS variable

The default personal location:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/appmanager

The default location:/etc/dt/appconfig/appmanager/`languag`