
# Creating Data Types Manually


There are two ways to create a data type definition:file types, See data types<$nopage>data typescreating manually

Using the Create Action tool. Using Create Action is covered in.

By manually creating the data type definition.

Creating a data type manually requires you to edit a database file.

This chapter describes how to manually create data type definitions.










# See Also


For an introduction to data types, see.

For reference information about data type definitions, see thedtdtsfile(4)man page.
# Reasons You Must Create a Data Type Manually


Manually creating a data type lets you use all the capabilities built into the
syntax of data type definitions.

data typesrequirements for manual creationYou must create a data type manually if you want to use these features of
data types:

Location (path)-based data typing

The ability to specify actions associated with the data type other than Open
and Print

Multiple name, pattern, or content criteria for the same data type&mdash;for
example, a data type based on files named*.abcor*.def

Link-based data typing
# Components of a Data Type Definition: Criteria and Attributes


A data type definition consists of two separate database definitions:

TheDATA_ATTRIBUTESdefinitionDATA_ATTRIBUTESdefinition.

TheDATA_ATTRIBUTESdefinition describes the data type's name and the
appearance and behavior of files of this type.

TheDATA_CRITERIAdefinitionDATA_CRITERIAdefinition.

TheDATA_CRITERIAdefinition describes the typing criteria. Each criteria
definition specifies theDATA_ATTRIBUTESdefinition to which the criteria
apply.

There must be at least oneDATA_CRITERIApaired with DATA_ATTRIBUTESDATA_CRITERIAdefinition for eachDATA_ATTRIBUTESdefinition; aDATA_ATTRIBUTESdefinition can have
multipleDATA_CRITERIAassociated with it.

For example, you could create an attributes definition for PostScript files that
described how PostScript files look and behave in File Manager. Then, you
could create two separate criteria for the PostScript data type&mdash; one based on
file name and the other based on file content.

For more information, see.
# Creating a Data Type Manually: General Steps


This section describes how to create a data type configuration file.
# Configuration Files for Data Typesdata typesconfiguration filesconfiguration filesdata types


The requirements for configuration files containing data type definitions are:

The files must use the naming convention`name`.dt

The files must be located on the database search path. The default search
path is:

Personal data types

`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types

System-wide data types

/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`

Built-in data types

/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`. You
should not use this directory.

For information on modifying the database search path, see.
# To Create a Data Type Definitiondata typesdefining


Open an existing database file or create a new one.

For more information, see the previous section,.

Define the data attributes for the data type using the syntax:DATA_ATTRIBUTES`data_type_name`{
 ICON`image_name`DESCRIPTION`string``attribute_field``attribute_field`&hellip;
}DATA_ATTRIBUTESsyntax

where:

data_type_name

A unique name given to this data type.

`image_name`

File name or path of an icon file. Use the base name for
the file. For example, for icon filesmyimage.m.pmandmyimage.t.pm, usemyimage.

attribute_field

Field that defines the appearance or behavior of the data
type.

`string`

Character string. The contents will be the on-item help
for the data type.

See.

Define the data criteria for the data type using the syntax:DATA_CRITERIA`criteria_name`{
 DATA_ATTRIBUTES_NAME`data_type_name``criteria_field``criteria_field`&hellip;
}DATA_CRITERIAsyntax

where:

criteria_name

Unique name for this criteria definition

data_type_name

Name used in theDATA_ATTRIBUTESdefinition

criteria_field

Field used to define the criteria for assigning a file to this
data type

See.

Save the database file.

Create the icons for the data type.

For more information, see.

If necessary, create the actions listed in theACTIONSfield of the attributes
definition.

Double-click Reload Actions in the Desktop_Tools application group to
reload the database.
# 