
# Creating Icons for the Desktop


Desktop icons are associated with:

Action files and data types in File Manager and Application Manager

Front Panel controls

Minimized application windows

Graphics used by applications such as palettes and toolbars

Workspace backdrop







The development environment documentation contains additional
information about desktop icons. See Chapter 4, &ldquo;Visual Design,&rdquo; in theStyle
Guide and Certification Checklist.
# Icon Image Files


For the desktop to use an icon image, the icon image file must:

Be in the proper format.

Use the proper file-naming conventions.

Use the desktop size conventions.

Be located in a directory along the icon search path.

Be called by the desktop construct using the proper syntax. For example, if
you create a new control for the Front Panel, use theICONfield in the Front
Panel definition to specify the icon image to use for the control.
# Icon File Formatsiconssearch path, See icon search path<$nopage>iconsservers, See icon servers<nopage>iconsfile formatsbitmapsSee also icons


For a color display, use X pixmap (XPM) format icon files, which typically have
a.pmsuffix. Otherwise, use X bitmap (XBM) format files, which typically have
a.bmsuffix. If transparency is used in the pixmap file, a mask file (_m.bm) is
generated when the.bmfile is created. Seefor
more information about how the desktop finds these files.
# Icon File Namesiconsfile namesfile names, icon


Each icon and backdrop image is stored as a separate file. Typically, an icon is
specified with the base part of its file name. For example, an icon might be
referenced with the namemailwhen the file is actually stored as:iconshow files are foundiconsnaming conventions.pm filename extension[pm filename].bm filename extension[bm filename]bitmapshow files are foundpixmapshow files are found2images, See icons<$nopage>/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/`language`/mail.l.pm

The file-naming convention of adding suffixes helps group icons by size and
type. Icon names for desktop components are in these general formats:

`basename`.`size`.`format`

Or

`basename`.`format`

where:

`basename`

The image base name used to reference the image

`size`

A letter indicating the size:l(large),m(medium),s(small),t(tiny)

`format`

File format:pm(pixmap),bm(bitmap)
# Icon Size Conventionsiconssize conventionssizes of icons


bitmapsnaming conventionspixmapsnaming conventionsshows the recommended pixel dimensions for desktop icons
# Icon Sizes and File Names


`Icon Size`

`Bitmap Name`

`Pixmap Name`

16 by 16 (tiny)

`name`.t.bm

`name`.t.pm

24 by 24 (small)

`name`.s.bm

`name`.s.pm

32 by 32 (medium)

`name`.m.bm

`name`.m.pm

48 by 48 (large)

`name`.l.bm

`name`.l.pm

.

shows the icon sizes used by the desktop components. In some
cases, the size of the icon used depends on the display resolution.
# Desktop Components and Their Icon Sizes


`Desktop Component`

`High
Resolution`

`Medium
Resolution`

`Low
Resolution`

File Manager and Application Manager
(View by Name and Icon)

medium

medium

medium

File Manager and Application Manager
(View by Name and Small Icon)

tiny

tiny

tiny

Main Front Panel controls

large

large

medium

Front Panel subpanels

medium

medium

tiny

Front Panel switch controls

small

small

tiny

Minimized windows

large

large

medium

For example, if you specify an icon namedmailfor a data type, have a color
display, and have set the File Manager preferences to small icons, the icon
image used ismail.t.pm.
# Icon Search Pathbitmapssearch pathbitmapshow files are foundpixmapssearch pathpixmapshow files are foundsearch pathsicons


The desktop finds an icon file, or image, by searching for the file in a list of
directories. This list of directories, called the`icon s`earch path, is determined by
the value of several environment variables. Which variables are used and how
they are put together to create the icon search path are discussed in.

The default search path is:

Built-in icons:/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/`language`

System-wide icons:/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/`language`

Personal icons:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/icons
# Accessing Icons across the Network


The desktop can access icons on remote systems. For information on creating
an icon server, see.
# Icon Associations


To enable quicker object recognition, you can associate icons with:iconsmaking associations

Actions and data types

Controls in the Front Panel and subpanels

Minimized application windows
# Specifying Icon Files


For icons used for actions, data types, and in the Front Panel or subpanels,
specify only the base name of the icon (no suffixes). The correct suffixes are
added automatically based on your display resolution, color support, and File
Manager view options (such as By Small Icons).

To override the search path, provide the complete path and name of the icon.
# To Associate an Icon with an Action or Data Type


Specify the icon using theICONfield.

If you follow the appropriate naming conventions for icon files, specify only
the base name of the icon. The correct icon will be displayed based on the
resolution and color support of your display.iconsassociating with action or data typeactionsassociating icon withdata typesassociating icon with

Create the following icon sizes:

Actions: large, medium, and tiny

Data types: medium and tiny
# Example of an Action Definition


The following example is an action definition for starting the Island PaintTMdrawing tool. The iconsIpaint.landIpaint.sare associated with the
action.ACTION      IslandPaintOpenDoc
{
 WINDOW_TYPE  NO-STDIO
 ICON         Ipaint
 EXEC_STRING  /usr/bin/IslandPaint &percnt;Arg_1&ldquo;File to open:&rdquo;&percnt;
}

If you are using color icons, the desktop first appends.pmwhen looking for the
actual icon files. Otherwise (or if no match is found with.pm), the desktop
appends.bm.
# Example of Data Type Definition


The following data type definition associates the iconscomprsd.landcomprsd.swith compressed files:DATA_ATTRIBUTES     COMPRESSED
{
 ICON         comprsd
 ACTIONS      Uncompress
 DESCRIPTION  A COMPRESSED file has been compressed by the \
              'compress' command to take up less space.
}
# To Display an Icon in a Front Panel Control


Specify the image name using theICONfield.

If the control monitors a file (MONITOR_TYPEis set to mail or file), use theALTERNATE_ICONfield to specify the icons used when the change is
detected.2iconsFront PanelFront Paneldisplaying icon in

You can also provide animation for buttons and drop zone controls.

Create the following icon sizes:

Main Panel and subpanels: large, medium, and tiny

Workspace switch: small
# Example


The following control changes appearance when a file namedreportis placed
in the/doc/ftp/pub/directory. When the file is not there, theNoReport.pmicon is displayed; when the file is there,Report.pmis displayed.CONTROL MonitorReport
{
 CONTAINER_NAME`container_name`TYPE            ICON
 MONITOR_TYPE    file
 FILE_NAME       /doc/ftp/pub/report
 ICON            NoReport
 ALTERNATE_ICON  Report
}
# To Associate an Icon with an Application Window


Set theiconImageresource for Workspace Manager as follows:iconsassociating with application windowapplication window, associating icon with

Dtwm*`clientname`*iconImage:`icon_file_name`

To determine the correct value for`clientname`, open Application Manager
and double-click Window Properties in the Desktop_Tools application
group. When you select a window, its properties are listed. TheWM_CLASS propertyWM_CLASS
property displays the window's class name in quotes.

For more information about setting resources, see.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.

To verify that the icon has been recognized by Workspace Manager, minimize
the window whose icon you are trying to modify.

Some applications do not allow their default window icon to be
overridden.
# To Use File Manager as an Icon Browsericonsbrowsing with File Managericonsusing File Manager as icon browserFile Manager, using as icon browserbrowsing icons using File Manager


Copy the file/usr/dt/examples/types/`language`/IconBrowse.dtto the`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/Iconbrowse.dtdirectory.

Open Application Manager and double-click Reload Actions in the
Desktop_Tools application group.

When you change to a directory that contains icons (.bmand.pmfiles), each
icon is displayed next to its name. For example, if you change to the/usr/dt/appconfig/icons/`language`directory, you will see many of the
desktop icons.

Enabling icon browsing on low-memory systems may cause File
Manager to display directories more slowly.Images larger than 256 x 256 are not displayed in the default configuration.

To disable icon browsing:

Remove your personal copy of theIconBrowse.dtfile.

Open Application Manager and double-click Reload Actions in the
Desktop_Tools application group.
# Icon Design Recommendationsiconsdesign recommendations


Use a common theme among related icons. For example, if you are designing
icons for an application, have purposeful similarities between the application's
icon and icons for data files.

Be sure the two-color version of any color icon you design is acceptable. If the
icon is displayed on a monochrome or grayscale display (or if there are not
enough colors available), the icon is automatically displayed in its two-color
form.

To conserve system color usage, try to limit icon color use to those provided by
the desktop.(Icons created using Icon Editor will be use only desktop colors.)

For the sizes used by the desktop components, see.
# Color Usage


Desktop icons use a palette of 22 colors including:colorusage in iconsiconscolor usage

Eight static grays

Eight static colors: red, blue, green, cyan, magenta, yellow, black, and white

Six dynamic colors: foreground, background, top shadow, bottom shadow,
select, and transparent

This palette creates attractive, easy-to-read icons without overtaking color
resources needed by other applications. Most icons provided with the desktop
use grays accented with color.

The transparent color is useful for creating icons that have the illusion of being
nonrectangular because the color behind the icon shows through.