
# Advanced Front Panel CustomizationFront Panelcustomizing


Users can customize the Front Panel using its pop-up menus and the Install
Icon controls in the subpanels.

This chapter covers customizing the Front Panel by creating and editing
configuration files.
















# See Also


For reference information on Front Panel controls and configuration, see thedtfpfile(4X)man page.

For reference information about the Workspace Manager, see thedtwm(1)
anddtwmrc(4)man pages.
# Front Panel Configuration Filesconfiguration filesFront PanelFront Panelconfiguration files


The Front Panel is defined in a database of configuration files.

The configuration files provide a way to customize the Front Panel. Certain
modifications can only be done by editing a configuration file, including:

Adding a new control position to the Main Panel.

Adding special types of controls, such as client windows.

Changing certain default behaviors&mdash;for example, whether the Front Panel
controls respond to a single- or double-click.

To provide maximum flexibility in configuring the panel, these files can be
personal, system-wide, or located on other systems.

The Front Panel is created and managed by the Workspace Manager.
# Default Front Panel Configuration File


The default Front Panel is defined in the Front Panel configuration file/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fp filedtwm.fp.

This file should not be altered.
# Search Path for Front Panel Configuration Filessearch pathsFront Panel definitionsFront Panelsearch path


The Front Panel definition can be distributed among any number of files
located locally or on remote systems.

Front Panelnaming convention for filesFiles used to define the Front Panel must meet these requirements:

The file name must end in.fp; for example,mail.fp.

The file must be located along the actions database search path.

The default actions database search path includes these directories, searched in
the following order:

`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types

Personal customizations

/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`

System-wide customizations

/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`

Built-in panel and controls

An additional directory,`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/fp_dynamic,
is used for
personal customizations made with the user interface. Do not use this directory
for manual customizations.fp_dynamic directoryFront Paneldynamic customizations

The actions database search path may include additional directories added to
configure the system for networking. In particular, additional remote locations
are added when the system is configured to access an application server. For
more information, see.
# How the Front Panel Is Assembled: Precedence RulesFront Panelprecedence in assemblingprecedenceFront Panel assembly


The Front Panel is assembled from all the configuration files located on the
actions database search path.

Where there is a conflict between components of the definition, precedence
rules determine which definition is used. Two components are in conflict with
one another when they:

Have the same control name,CONTAINER_NAME, andCONTAINER_TYPE.

Or, they compete for the same position (by having different names but the
sameCONTAINER_NAME,CONTAINER_TYPE, andPOSITION_HINTS).

The Front Panel uses these precedence rules:

If components have the same control name and container name and type,
the component read first is used.

For example, if both a system-wide and built-in control contain these fields
but are otherwise different:CONTROL TextEditor
{
 CONTAINER_TYPE  BOX
 CONTAINER_NAME  Top
 &hellip;
}

then the system-wide control has precedence.

If two components compete for the same position, they are placed in the
order in which they are read.

For example, if a user creates a new personal control for the Main Panel
(CONTAINER_TYPEBOX andCONTAINER_NAMETop) and assigns itPOSITION_HINTS(5), the personal control will bump the built-in control and
all other controls with higher position numbers one position to the right.

When you are modifying a control by creating a new system-wide or
personal version of it, the new control definition must specify the same control
name,CONTAINER_NAME, andCONTAINER_TYPE. Otherwise, the new control
will appear in addition to the existing control.
# Front Paneldynamic customizationsDynamically Created Front Panel Files


When the user customizes the Front Panel using the Install Icon control and
pop-up menus, files are written to the directory`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/fp_dynamic.

The Front Panel creates an additional file,`HomeDirectory`/.dt/sessions/dtwmfp.sessionthat is used to save and
restore the state of the customized Front Panel for each session.dtwmfp.session file
# Administering User Interface Customizations


Users can use the controls' pop-up menus and Install Icon controls to
extensively customize the Front Panel.

This section describes how to:

Prevent certain personal customizations. For example, you may want to
make it impossible for a user to delete a control.

Undo personal customizations. For example, a user might request that you
restore a single control accidentally deleted.
# To Prevent Personal CustomizationsFront Panelcontrolling personal customizationsFront Panelcontrol, See control<$nopage>


If the control is a built-in control, copy its definition from/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fpto/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/`name`.fp.

Add the following line to the control definition:LOCKED   True
# To Restore a Modified Front Panel or Deleted Control or Subpanelsubpanelrestoring deletedcontrolrestoring


To remove all Front Panel customizations and restore the defaults,
use the Restore Front Panel action in the Desktop_Tools application group.
This action removes all personal customizations a user has
made with the Front Panel's pop-up menus.Restore Front Panel actioncontrollockingLOCKED field

To restore an individual control that has
been deleted use the following procedure.

In the`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/fp_dynamicdirectory, remove the file
that was created when the user deleted the control. The control will have the
same name as the original control that was deleted.

For example, if the user deleted the Icon Editor control, a file in thefp_dynamicdirectory will contain:IconEditor
{ &hellip;
 DELETE   True
}DELETE field

When the user deletes a subpanel, a separate dynamic file is created for the
subpanel and for each control in the subpanel.For related information, see.
# Organization of the Front Panel DefinitionFront Panelorganization of definition


The Front Panel is built by assembling definitions for its components. Each of
these components has required syntax that defines where the component is
placed in the Front Panel, what the component looks like, and how it behaves.
# Front Panel ComponentsFront Panelcomponents

# Front Panel components


The Front Panel is assembled from the outside in:

ThePANEL definitionPANELis the top-level container, or parent, for the entire Front Panel.

ThePANELis a container for one or moreBOXes.

ABOX definitionBOXis a container for one or moreCONTROLs.

There are two special types of containers:

ASUBPANEL definitionSUBPANELis associated with a particular control (the control is the
container for the subpanel). Subpanels &ldquo;slide up&rdquo; from the control with
which they are associated.

Theworkspace switchdefinitionSWITCHcontains the buttons for changing workspaces plus additional
controls.
# General Syntax of the Front Panel DefinitionFront Panelsyntax


Each component in the Front Panel is defined separately using the syntax:`COMPONENT``name`{`KEYWORD``value``KEYWORD``value`&hellip;
}

Some keywords are required, others are optional. For more information, see thedtfpfile(4X) man page.
# PANEL definitionsyntaxPANEL Definition


ThePANELis the top-level component. Its definition includes:

The Front Panel name

Fields describing the general appearance and behavior of the entire Front
PanelPANEL`front_panel_name`{`KEYWORD``value``KEYWORD``value`&hellip;

Thefront_panel_nameis a unique name for the Front Panel. The default name is
&ldquo;FrontPanel.&rdquo;
# BOX definitionsyntaxBOX Definitions


ABOXdefinition describes:

TheBOXname

WhichPANELthe box is in (CONTAINER_NAME fieldCONTAINER_NAME)

The position of the box in thePANEL(POSITION_HINTS)

Fields describing appearance and behavior that apply to the entire boxBOX`box_name`{
 CONTAINER_NAME`front_panel_name`POSITION_HINTS`position``KEYWORD``value``KEYWORD``value`&hellip;
}
# CONTROL definition, syntaxCONTROL Definitions


ACONTROLdefinition describes:

TheCONTROLname

Whether the control is in a box, subpanel, or switch (CONTAINER_TYPE fieldCONTAINER_TYPE)

Which box, subpanel, or switch the control is in (CONTAINER_NAME fieldCONTAINER_NAME)

The position of theCONTROLin theBOX(POSITION_HINTS).

Fields describing appearance and behavior of the controlCONTROL`control_name`{
 CONTAINER_TYPE     BOX`or`SUBPANEL`or`SWITCH
 CONTAINER_NAME`box_name``or``subpanel_name``or``switch_name`TYPE`control_type`POSITION_HINTS`position``KEYWORD``value``KEYWORD``value`&hellip;
}subpaneldefinitionsubpanelsyntax
# subpanelsyntaxSUBPANEL Definitions


ASUBPANELdefinition describes:

TheSUBPANELname

The name of the control to which the subpanel is attachedsubpanelcontainer(CONTAINER_NAME fieldCONTAINER_NAME)

Fields describing appearance and behavior specific to the subpanelSUBPANEL`subpanel_name`{
 CONTAINER_NAME`control_name``KEYWORD``value``KEYWORD``value`&hellip;
}
# SWITCH definitionworkspace switchsyntax of definitionSWITCH Definition


TheSWITCHdefinition describes:

TheSWITCHname

WhichBOXtheSWITCHis in (CONTAINER_NAME fieldCONTAINER_NAME)

The position of theSWITCHwithin theBOX(POSITION_HINTS)

Fields describing the appearance and behavior of theSWITCHSWITCH`switch_name`{
 CONTAINER_NAME`box_name`POSITION_HINTS`position``KEYWORD``value``KEYWORD``value`&hellip;
}
# Modifying the Main PanelFront Panelmodifying


The Main Panel is the Front Panel window, excluding the subpanels.
# Main Panel containers


Modifications you can make include:

Adding or removing controls

Interchanging the positions of controls
# To Add a Control to the Main Panelcontroladding to Main Panel


Create a Front Panel configuration file:

System-wide:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/*.fp

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/*.fp

Define the control in the file.

Use theCONTAINER_NAMEandCONTAINER_TYPEfields to specify the
container for the control:CONTAINER_NAME  Top
CONTAINER_TYPE  BOX

UsePOSITION_HINTSto specify the left-to-right placement of the control.
Since customizations have precedence over built-in controls, the new control
will &ldquo;bump&rdquo; the existing control with that position one position to the right.

Save the configuration file.

Create an icon for the Front Panel control.

See.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.

For example, the following control definition placed in the file/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/audio.fpinserts an audio
application control between the Clock and Calendar controls.CONTROL AudioApplication
{
 TYPE             icon
 CONTAINER_NAME   Top
 CONTAINER_TYPE   BOX
 ICON             AudioApp
 POSITION_HINTS   2
 PUSH_ACTION      StartAudioApplication
 PUSH_RECALL      true
}
# To Remove a Controlcontrolremoving from Front Panel


Create a Front Panel configuration file:

System-wide:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/`name`.fp

Personal:`HomeDirector`y/.dt/types/`name`.fp

Copy the definition of the control you want to delete to the new file.

If the control is built-in, its definition is in/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fp.

You do not need to copy the entire definition. However, the portion you
copy must include the fieldsCONTAINER_NAMEandCONTAINER_TYPE.

Add theDELETEfield to the definition:DELETE   True

Save the configuration file

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.

For example, the following control definition placed in the file/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/TrashCan.fpremoves the Trash
Can control from the Front Panel.CONTROL Trash
{
 CONTAINER_NAME  Top
 CONTAINER_TYPE  BOX
 DELETE          True
}
# To Modify a Controlcontrolmodifying


Use this procedure when you need to modify a control definition&mdash;for
example, to change its icon image.

Copy the entire control definition from/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fpto:

System-wide:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/`name`.fp

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/`name`.fp.

Edit the field you want to change. You can also add additional fields.

Save the file

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.
# To Interchange the Position of Controlscontrolinterchanging with another control


Copy the control definitions for the controls whose positions you want to
change from/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fpto:

System-wide:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/`name`.fp

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/`name`.fp.

You must copy the entire control definition for each control to be moved..

Interchange the values of thePOSITION_HINTS fieldPOSITION_HINTSfields of the control
definitions.

Save the file

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.

For example, the following definitions placed in a file/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C/MailInfo.fpinterchange the positions of
the Mail and Information Manager controls and lock these controls against personal
changes.CONTROL Mail
{
 POSITION_HINTS     12
 LOCKED     True
 &hellip;`the rest of the control definition`}
CONTROL InfoManager
{
 POSITION_HINTS     5
 LOCKED     True
 &hellip;`the rest of the control definition`}
# To Replace a Front Panel Controlcontrolreplacing


Create another control definition with the same:

`control_name`

CONTAINER_NAME fieldCONTAINER_NAMEvalue

For example, the following two controls are defined in two different
configuration files. The controls have the same control name and container
name and are therefore considered the same control.

Definition in/etc/dt/appconfig/types/C/SysControls.fp:Control ImportantApplication
{
 CONTAINER_NAME     Top
 CONTAINER_TYPE     BOX
 POSITION_HINTS     2
 &hellip;

Definition in`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/MyControls.fp:Control ImportantApplication
{
 CONTAINER_NAME     Top
 CONTAINER_TYPE     BOX
 POSITION_HINTS     6
 &hellip;

The personal control has precedence, so the control will be located at position
6.
# Specifying the Icon Used by a ControlcontrolappearancecontroliconiconsFront Panel


The control definition'sICON fieldin Front PanelICONfield defines the icon image used for the control.

The value of theICONfield can be:

A base file name.

The base file name is the name of the file containing the icon image minus
the file-name suffixes for size (mandt) and image type (bmandpm). For
example, if files are namedMyGame.l.pmandMyGame.m.pm, useMyGame.

If you use the base file name, the icon files must be placed in a directory on
the icon search path:

Personal icons:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/icons

System-wide icons:/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/`language`

An absolute path to the icon file, including the full file name.

You should use the absolute path only if the icon file is not located on the
icon search path.

The size icon you need depends on the location of the control:

Location

Size

Main Panel

48 by 48 pixels (`name`.l.pmor`name`.l.bm)

Subpanel

32 by 32 pixels (`name`.m.pmor`name`.m.bm)

Place the icon file in one of these locations:

Personal icons:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/icons

System-wide icons:/etc/dt/appconfig/icons/`language`
# Creating and Modifying Subpanelssubpanelcreatingsubpanelmodifying


Users can create and modify subpanels using the Front Panel pop-up menus.

This section discusses how to provide system-wide customization, which
requires you to modify the Front Panel configuration files.

A subpanel is &ldquo;attached&rdquo; to a control in the Main Panel.
# A subpanel's container is the control to which it is attached


subpanelassociation with Main PanelThe attachment is done in the subpanel definition. TheCONTAINER_NAMEfield
specifies the control to which the subpanel is attached:CONTROL`control_name`{
   &hellip;
}

SUBPANEL`subpanel_name`{
 CONTAINER_NAME`control_name`&hellip;
}
# To Create a New System-Wide Subpanelsubpanelsystem-wide customizationsubpanelnew


Locate the`control_name`of the control in the Main Panel to which you want
to attach the subpanel.

If the control is one of the built-in controls, its definition is in/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fp.

Create a new file/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/*.fp.

Define the subpanel:SUBPANEL`subpanel_name`{
 CONTAINER_NAME`control_name`TITLE`value``KEYWORD    value`&hellip;
}

Save the new configuration file.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.
# Customizing the Built-in Subpanelssubpanelcustomizing built-in panel


You can modify general properties (such as the title) and the contents of the
built-in subpanels.
# To Modify General Properties of a Built-In Subpanel


Create a new Front Panel configuration file:

System-wide:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/`name`.fp

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/`name`.fp.

Copy the entire defaultSUBPANELdefinition from/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fpto the new file:SUBPANEL`subpanel_name`{
  &hellip;
}

Modify the subpanel definition.

Save the new configuration file.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.

For example, the following definition, placed in the file/users/janice/.dt/types/PerApps.fp, changes the name of the
Personal Applications subpanel:SUBPANEL PersAppsSubpanel
{
 CONTAINER_NAME  TextEditor
 TITLE           Janice's Applications
}
# To Add a System-Wide Control to a Built-In Subpanel


Create a Front Panel configuration file/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/`name`.fp.

Define the system-wide control in the file.

Use theCONTAINER_NAMEandCONTAINER_TYPEfields to specify the
container for the control:CONTROL`control_name`{
 CONTAINER_NAME`subpanel_name`CONTAINER_TYPESUBPANEL&hellip;
}

See.

Save the configuration file.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.

For example, the following control defined in a new file/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/DigitalClock.fpadds the
DigitalClock (in the Desktop_Tools application group) to the Personal
Applications subpanel for all users.CONTROL DigitalClockControl
{
 TYPE            icon
 CONTAINER_NAME  PerAppsSubpanel
 CONTAINER_TYPE  SUBPANEL
 ICON            Dtdgclk
 PUSH_ACTION     DigitalClock
 PUSH_RECALL     True
}
# To Remove a Control from a Built-In Subpanel


Use the same procedure as for removing a Main Panel control. See.
# To Remove theInstall Icon control, removingInstall Icon Control


Add the following field to the subpanel definition:CONTROL_INSTALL     False
# To Change the Auto-Close Behavior of Subpanelssubpanelchanging auto-close behavior


The default behavior of subpanels is to close when the user chooses a control,
unless the user has moved the subpanel from its original position.

The Front Panel can be configured to keep subpanels open until the user
explicitly closes them.

Create a new Front Panel configuration file in:

System-wide:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/*.fp

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/*.fp

Copy the defaultPANELdefinition from/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fpto the new file:PANEL FrontPanel
{
  &hellip;
}

Add the following field to thePANELdefinition:SUBPANEL_UNPOST    False

Save the new configuration file.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.
# Defining Front Panel Controlscontroldefining


The user can create personal controls by dropping icons on the Install Icon
controls.

While this provides easy customizability, the functionality it provides is a
subset of the capabilities of Front Panel controls. For example, a control created
using the Install Icon control cannot:

Provide animation

Display a client window

Change appearance when an event occurs (for example, upon receiving new
mail)

This section describes how to manually create Front Panel controls.

For reference information on the syntax of Front Panel controls, see thedtfpfile(4X)man page.
# Front Panel Control Definitions


The structure of a Front Panel control definition is:CONTROL`control_name`{
  TYPE`control_type`CONTAINER_NAME`value`CONTAINER_TYPE`value``other fields defining appearance and behavior`}
# controltypesControl Types


TheTYPE fieldTYPEfield in the control definition specifies the basic behavior of the
control.

Control TYPE

Control Behavior

iconicon Front Panel controls

(Default) The control will run a specified action when the
user clicks the control or drops a file on it.

blankblank type control

Placeholder used to adjust spacing of controls.

busybusy type control

Busy light. The control blinks (toggles images) when an
action is invoked

clientclient type control

A client window in the Front Panel.

clockclock type control

Clock.

datedate type control

Displays the current date.

filefile type control

Represents a file. Choosing the control runs the default
action for the file.
# To Create a New Controlcontrolcreating


This section describes the general steps for defining a control and describes
how to create various types of controls.

If the control will have aPUSH_ACTIONand/orDROP_ACTION, create the
action definitions. These are the actions that run when the user clicks the
control or drops a file on it.

Create the icon image files for the control.

For information about icon sizes, names, and locations, see.

Create a new Front Panel configuration file in:

System-wide:/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/*.fp

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/*.fp

Add the control definition to the file.

Save the file.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.
# Creating a Control that Runs an Action When Clicked


Use these fields to define the control's behavior:

TYPE: Set toicon

PUSH_ACTION fieldPUSH_ACTION:Specifies the name of the action to be run

For example, the following control, which will be put in the Personal
Applications subpanel, runs a game the user has acquired:CONTROL Ball
{
 TYPE            icon
 CONTAINER_NAME  PersAppsSubpanel
 CONTAINER_TYPE  SUBPANEL
 ICON            ball
 PUSH_ACTION     RunBallGame
 HELP_STRING     &ldquo;Choose this control to play Ball.&rdquo;
}

The following control will be located in the upper left corner of the switch. It
starts an action named CutDisp.CONTROL StartCutDisp
{
  TYPE             icon
  CONTAINER_NAME   Switch
  CONTAINER_TYPE   SWITCH
  POSITION_HINTS   first
  ICON             cutdisp
  HELP_STRING      &ldquo;Choose this control to run cutdisp.&rdquo;
  PUSH_ACTION      CutDisp
}
# controlthat opens a fileCreating a Control that Opens a File


Use these fields to define the control's behavior:

TYPE: Set tofile

FILE_NAME fieldFILE_NAME:Specifies the path of the file to be opened

PUSH_ACTION:Set toOpen

There must be an Open action defined for the data type of the file.

For example, the following control will be located on the far right side of the
Main Panel. It starts Text Editor with the data file/users/ellen/PhoneList.txt. The Open action for*.txtfiles is part of
the default action database.CONTROL EditPhoneList
{
 TYPE            file
 FILE_NAME       /users/ellen/PhoneList.txt
 CONTAINER_NAME  Top
 CONTAINER_TYPE  BOX
 POSITION_HINTS  last
 ICON            PhoneBook
 HELP_STRING     &ldquo;This control displays Ellen's phone list.&rdquo;
 PUSH_ACTION     Open
}
# Creating a Control that Behaves as a Drop Zonedrop zoneFront Panel controlFront Paneldrop zone controlcontroldrop zone


Use theDROP_ACTION fieldDROP_ACTIONfield to specify the action that runs when the user drops
a file on the control. The action must be capable of accepting a file argument.

Frequently, a control definition includes both aPUSH_ACTIONandDROP_ACTIONfield. You can use the same action for the push and drop action.

For example, the following control, located in the Personal Applications
subpanel, runs the X clientxwud, which takes a file argument.CONTROL Run_xwud
{
 CONTAINER_NAME   PerAppsSubpanel
 CONTAINER_TYPE   SUBPANEL
 POSITION_HINTS   2
 ICON             XwudImage
 PUSH_ACTION      RunXwud
 DROP_ACTION      RunXwud
}
# Creating a Control that Monitors a Filecontrolmonitor


Use these fields to define the control's behavior:

TYPE: Specify one of the following values:

iconicon type control

Use this type if you want to specify aPUSH_ACTIONand/orDROP_ACTIONfor the control.

filefile type control

Use this type if you want the control, when chosen, to
behave like the file when the file's icon is double-clicked in
File Manager.

ICONandALTERNATE_ICON fieldALTERNATE_ICON:Describe the images used to indicate the non-
changed and changed state of the monitored file.

MONITOR_TYPE fieldMONITOR_TYPE: Describes the conditions causing the image to change. Use
one of the following values:

mailmonitor types of controlsmail type control

The control will change appearance when information is
added to the file.

file

The control will change when the specified file becomes non-
empty.

FILE_NAMEFILE_NAME field: Specifies the file to be monitored.

For example, the following control looks for the presence of a file namedmeetingsthat you expect to be transferred to your system using anonymous
ftp. The control is placed at the top of the Personal Applications subpanel.CONTROL MonitorCalendar
{
 TYPE              file
 CONTAINER_NAME    PersonalApps
 CONTAINER_TYPE    SUBPANEL
 POSITION_HINTS    first
 FILE_NAME         /users/ftp/meetings
 MONITOR_TYPE      file
 ICON              meetingsno
 ALTERNATE_ICON    meetingsyes
}
# Creating a One-Instance (Toggle) Controlcontroltogglecontrolone-instance


A one-instance control checks to see whether the process started by thePUSH_ACTIONis already running. If the process is not running, thePUSH_ACTIONis run. If the process is already running, the window is moved
to the top of the window stack in the current workspace.

Use these fields to define the control's behavior:

PUSH_RECALL: Set toTrue.

CLIENT_NAME fieldCLIENT_NAME: Specifies the name of the client to the control.

The value ofCLIENT_NAMEmust match the first string (`res_name`) in the
WM_CLASS property on the application's top-level window. For more
information, see thexprop(1) man page.

PUSH_ACTION: Describes the action run when the user clicks the control.

For example, the following control runs one instance of an application whose
action is named MyEditor.CONTROL MyEditor
{
 TYPE            icon
 CONTAINER_NAME  Top
 CONTAINER_TYPE  BOX
 POSITION_HINTS  15
 PUSH_RECALL     True
 CLIENT_NAME     BestEditor
 PUSH_ACTION     StartMyEditor
 ICON            MyEd
}
# To Create a Client Window ControlFront Panelclient inclientswindow in Front Panelcontrolclient


A client window control is an application window embedded in the Front
Panel. For example, you can put a system load meter in the Front Panel by
creating anxloadclient window control.

Define the control.

Use these fields to define the control's behavior:

TYPE: Set toclient.

CLIENT_NAME fieldCLIENT_NAME: Specifies the client to be started.

The value ofCLIENT_NAMEmust match the first string (`res_name`) in the
WM_CLASS properly on the application's top-level window. For more
information, see thexprop(1) man page.

CLIENT_GEOMETRY fieldCLIENT_GEOMETRY: Specifies the size, in pixels, needed for the client's
Front Panel window.

Thexwininfo(1) man page describes how to find out the size of a
window in pixels.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.

Start the client from a terminal emulator command line.

For example, the following control displays a 30 X 20 pixel load meter.CONTROL LoadMeter
{
 TYPE             client
 CONTAINER_NAME   Top
 CONTAINER_TYPE   BOX
 CLIENT_NAME      xload
 CLIENT_GEOMETRY  30x20
}

If the client is not saved and restored between sessions, you may want to
configure the control to start the client when the user clicks it. For example,
you can configure the LoadMeter control to startxloadby adding the
following line to the definition:PUSH_ACTION    StartXload

and creating the action:ACTION StartXload
{
 WINDOW_TYPE    NO_STDIO
 EXEC_STRING    /usr/contrib/bin/X11/xload
}
# To Animate a Controlcontrolanimationanimation for Front PanelFront Panelanimation


You can attach an animation sequence to be used when the user chooses the
control or drops an object on it.

In order to have an animation sequence, a control must:

Be typeicon

Have aPUSH_ACTIONorDROP_ACTION

Specify the animation sequence using theANIMATION definitionANIMATIONcomponent:ANIMATION`animation_name`{
 ANIMATION`icon_image`[`delay`]
 ANIMATION`icon_image`[`delay`]
 &hellip;
}

where`delay`is the time delay between animation icons, in milliseconds.

Add thePUSH_ANIMATION fieldPUSH_ANIMATIONand/orDROP_ANIMATION fieldDROP_ANIMATIONfields to the control
definition. The value is the name of theANIMATIONsequence.

For example, the following lines animate a control that starts the BestEditor
application. The time delay between icons is 300 milliseconds. The example
assumes you've created icon filesframe1,frame2, etc.CONTROL BestEditor
{
 &hellip;
 PUSH_ANIMATION BestEdAnimation
 &hellip;
}

ANIMATION BestEdAnimation
{
 ANIMATION frame1   300
 ANIMATION frame2
 &hellip;
}
# Providing On Item Help for Front Panel ControlshelpFront PanelFront PanelhelpcontrolOn Item help


There are two ways to provide help for a control:

Providing a help string in the control definition.

The help string is displayed in the help viewer when the user invokes on-
item help for the control. The help string cannot include formatting (such as
headings) or links.

To provide a help string, specify the help string in the control definition:HELP_STRING`help_string`HELP_STRING field

Specifying a help topic in a registered help volume.

A help topic is information authored using the full capabilities of the help
system. Authoring a help topic requires you to use the desktop Help
Developer's Kit.

To provide a help topic, specify the help volume and topic ID in the control
definition:HELP_VOLUME`help_volume_name`HELP_TOPIC`topic_id`HELP_VOLUME fieldHELP_TOPIC field
# Customizing the Workspace Switchworkspace switchcustomizingswitch, See workspace switch<$nopage>


There are several ways to customize the workspace switch:

Changing the number of workspaces

Changing the layout of the switch

Changing the controls in the switch
# To Change the Default Number of Workspacesworkspaceschanging default numberworkspace switchnumber of workspaces


Modify the following Workspace Manager resource:Dtwm*workspaceCount:`n`

For more information, see.
# To Change the Number of Switch Rowsworkspace switchnumber of rows


Modify theNUMBER_OF_ROWS fieldNUMBER_OF_ROWSfield in theSWITCHdefinition.

For example, the following definition defines a three-row switch.SWITCH Switch
{
 CONTAINER_NAME`box_name`NUMBER_OF_ROWS    3
 &hellip;
}
# To Change or Add Controls in the Workspace Switchworkspace switchadding controlscontrolin workspace switch


Create a Front Panel configuration file with the control definition.

Specify that the control be inside the switch:CONTAINER_NAME   Switch
CONTAINER_TYPE   SWITCH

Specify the position in the switch:POSITION_HINTS`n`

where`n`is an integer. The positions are numbered sequentially left-to-
right, top-to-bottom. (For the default two-row switch, the positions are 1
through 4.)

Create the icon for the control. The recommended size is 16 by 16 pixels.

For example, the following control puts a Terminal control in the switch.CONTROL SwitchTerminal
{
  TYPE                  icon
  CONTAINER_NAME        Switch
  CONTAINER_TYPE        SWITCH
  POSITION_HINTS        3
  ICON                  Fpterm
  LABEL                 Terminal
  PUSH_ACTION           Dtterm
  HELP_TOPIC            FPOnItemTerm
  HELP_VOLUME           FPanel
}

The control uses a built-in icon and the same help topic used by the Terminal
control in the Personal Applications subpanel.
# General Front Panel Configuration


Front Panel'sPANELsyntax allows you to:

Change the location of the Front Panel

Change the window decoration

Set general appearance and behavior of controls

The defaultPANELdescription is in/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fp.

For additional information, see thedtfpfile(4X)man page.
# General Steps


Create a new Front Panel configuration file in/etc/dt/appconfig/types/`language`or`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types.

Copy the defaultPANELdescription from/usr/dt/types/`language`/dtwm.fpto the new file.

Edit thePANELdescription.

The newPANELdescription has precedence over the default one.
# To Change the Default Front Panel LocationFront Panellocation on screen


Use thePANEL_GEOMETRY fieldPANEL_GEOMETRYfield in thePANELdefinition to specify the
location.

For example, the following panel is in the upper right corner.PANEL SpecialFrontPanel
{
  PANEL_GEOMETRY      -1+1
   &hellip;
}
# To Label Controls in the Main PanellabelsFront Panel controlsFront Panellabeling controlscontrollabeling


Add the following line to thePANELdefinition:DISPLAY_CONTROL_LABELS   True

Add aLABELfield to each control.

The`control_name`is used if noLABELis specified.
# To Change the Click Behavior of Controlscontrolclick vs. double-click


Use theCONTROL_BEHAVIOR fieldCONTROL_BEHAVIORfield in thePANELdefinition to specify how
the user runs a control'sPUSH_ACTION. Values for the field are:

single_click

The user clicks the control to run thePUSH_ACTION

double_click

The user double-clicks the control to run thePUSH_ACTION
# To Create an Entirely New Front PanelFront Panelnew


Creating a new Front Panel may be preferable when you want to make
extensive changes.

To avoid conflict with the built-in Front Panel components, an entirely new
Front Panel should use new names for the PANEL and other containers.

Create thePANELcomponent for the new Front Panel. Give it a unique
name:PANEL`front_panel_name`{
   &hellip;
}

Create the new boxes and controls, using the new container names.

If you want to use existing components, you must copy their definitions and
change theCONTAINER_NAMEvalue.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.
# Example of Creating a Personal Front Panel with Three RowsFront Paneladding rows


The following example changes the default Front Panel so that its controls are
organized into three rows.

Copy/usr/dt/appconfig/types/`language`/dtwm.fpto`HomeDirectory`/.dt/types/MyFrontPanel.fp. Give the file write
permission.

This is the file you will edit to provide the new Front Panel.

Change the name of the Front Panel:PANEL NewFrontPanel

Change the name of the box named Top and edit its container name:BOX NewFrontPanelTop
{
  CONTAINER_NAME     NewFrontPanel
  POSITION_HINTS     first
  &hellip;
}

Add box definitions for the middle and bottom rows:BOX NewFrontPanelMiddle
{
  CONTAINER_NAME      NewFrontPanel
  POSITION_HINTS      second
}
BOX NewFrontPanelBottom
{
  CONTAINER_NAME      NewFrontPanel
  POSITION_HINTS      second
}

Change theCONTAINER_NAMEof the following controls toNewFrontPanelTop:

Clock

Date

Home

TextEditor

Mail

Change theCONTAINER_NAMEof the following controls toNewFrontPanelBottom:

Printer

Style

Applications

Info

Trash

Change theCONTAINER_NAMEof the switch toNewFrontPanelMiddle.

Set the resource:Dtwm*frontPanel*name:  NewFrontPanel

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.