
# Customizing the Workspace Manager


dtwm, See Workspace Manager<$nopage><$nopage>Window ManagerSee also Workspace ManagerMotif Window Manager, See Workspace Manager<$nopage>This chapter describes how to customize the desktop Workspace Manager.













Workspace ManagerdefinitionThe Workspace Manager is the window manager provided by the desktop.
Like other window managers, it controls:

The appearance of window frame components

The behavior of windows, including their stacking order and focus behavior

Key bindings and button bindings

The appearance of minimized windows

Workspace and Window menus

In addition, the Workspace Manager controls these desktop components:

Workspaces. The Workspace Manager controls the number of workspaces,
and keeps track of which windows are open in each workspace.

Workspace backdrops. The user changes backdrops using Style Manager.
However, backdrop management is a function of the Workspace Manager.backdropsworkspacesbackdrops, See backdrops

Front Panelmanaged by Workspace ManagerWorkspace Managermanaging Front PanelThe Front Panel. Although the Front Panel uses its own configuration files, it
is created and managed by the Workspace Manager.

Many of these can be changed with Style Manager. Style Manager is able to
make often-used changes quickly, with little effort on your part. Other
resources must be set manually.

The Workspace Manager isdtwm. It is based on the Motif Window
Manager.
# See Also


For reference information about the Workspace Manager, see thedtwm(1)
anddtwmrc(4)man pages.

For information about setting Workspace Manager resources, see.

For information on Front Panel configuration files, see.

For additional information about setting resources, see.
# Workspace Manager Configuration FilesWorkspace Managerconfiguration filesconfiguration filesWorkspace Managerconfiguration filesWindow Manager


The Workspace Manager gets information about the window menus,
workspace menus, button bindings, and key bindings from a configuration file.

It uses one of the following files:

Personal file:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/dtwmrc filedtwmrc

System custom file:/etc/dt/config/`language`/sys.dtwmrc filesys.dtwmrc

Built-in file:/usr/dt/config/`language`/sys.dtwmrc

The Workspace Manager searches for a configuration file in the order shown
above, and uses the first one it finds.

For users who use more than one session language, a personal, language-
dependent configuration file`HomeDirectory`/.dt/`language`/dtwrmccan be
created that takes precedence over`HomeDirectory`/.dt/dtwmrc.
# To Create or Modify a Personal Configuration FileWorkspace Managerpersonal customization


The personal Workspace Manager configuration file is`HomeDirectory`/.dt/dtwmrc. If this file exists, it is the file used.

Double-clickEdit Dtwmrc actiondtwmrc fileeditingEdit Dtwmrc in the Desktop_Tools application group.

If you already have a personaldtwmrcfile, it is loaded into the editor. If
not,sys.dtwmrcis copied to`HomeDirectory`/.dt/dtwmrc, which is then
loaded into the editor.

Edit the file.

Exit the editor.

The file is saved as your personaldtwmrc, regardless of its original source.
# To Create a System-Wide Configuration FileWorkspace Managersystem-wide customization


The system-wide Workspace Manager configuration file is/etc/dt/config/`language`/sys.dtwmrc.

Copy/usr/dt/config/`language`/sys.dtwmrc filesys.dtwmrcto/etc/dt/config/`language`/sys.dtwmrc.

This file is not used if`HomeDirectory`/.dt/dtwmrcexists.
# To Include (Source In) Other FilesWorkspace Managerincluding other files


Use the syntax:include
{`path
    path`&hellip;
}include statement, in Workspace Manager files

For example, the following lines source in the file /users/ellen/mymenu:include
{
   /users/ellen/mymenu
}

Include statements are useful for providing additional functionality without
copying the entire configuration file. For example, a user might want to create
a new key binding without having to administer the entire configuration file.
The user can create a file`HomeDirectory`/.dt/dtwmrcwith this content:include
{
 /etc/dt/config/C/sys.dtwmrc
}
Keys DtKeyBindings
{
  Alt&lt;Key>F5 root  f.menu  Applications
}
Menu Applications
{
  &ldquo;GraphicsApp&rdquo; f.exec &ldquo;/usr/bin/GraphicsApp/GApp&rdquo;
  &hellip;
}
# To Restart the Workspace ManagerWorkspace Managerrestarting


The Workspace Manager must be restarted in order for changes made to the
configuration file to take effect.

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu (press
mouse button 3 when the pointer is on the backdrop).
# Customizing Workspacesworkspacescustomizing


Most workspace customization, such as changing workspace names and the
number of workspaces, can be done by the user using the desktop's interface.
However, the Workspace Manager provides resources for setting system-wide
defaults.
# To Change the Number of Workspaces on a System-Wide Basisworkspacesnumber of


The default desktop configuration provides four workspaces. The user can add
and delete workspaces using the pop-up menu associated with the Workspace
switch.

The Workspace Manager provides a resource for changing the default number
of workspaces.

Use theworkspaceCountresource to set the number of workspaces:

Dtwm*workspaceCount:`number`workspaceCount resource

For information about setting Workspace Manager resources, see.

For example, the following resource sets the number of workspaces to six:Dtwm*workspaceCount: 6
# To Provide System-Wide Workspace Namesworkspacesnames


Internally, the workspaces are numbered by the numbering conventionws`n`,
where`n`is 0, 1, 2, and so on. For example, the default four workspaces are
numbered internallyws0throughws3.

Use thetitleresource to change the name of a specified workspace:title resourceDtwm*ws`n`:`name`Dtwm*ws`n`.title:`name`

For information about setting Workspace Manager resources, see.

For example, the following resources set the default four workspaces to the
specified names:Dtwm*ws0*title:  Anna
Dtwm*ws1*title:  Don
Dtwm*ws2*title   Julia
Dtwm*ws3*title   Patti
# To Create Additional Backdropsbackdropsadding


Create the backdrop images. They can be bitmap or pixmap files.

backdropsfile locationsPlace the backdrops in one of the following directories. (You may have to
create the directory.)

System-wide backdrops:/etc/dt/backdrops

Personal backdrops:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/backdrops

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.

The system-wide and personal backdrops are added to the built-in backdrops
in/usr/dt/backdrops.

You can replace an existing built-in backdrop by creating a personal or system-
wide backdrop with the same name.
# To Replace the Backdrop With a Graphics Imagebackdropsusing graphics image


The backdrops are layered over the display'sroot windowroot window. The Style Manager
Backdrop dialog box provides aNoBackdrop settingNoBackdrop setting in which the backdrop is
transparent.

There is only one root window behind all the workspace backdrops. Thus, a
graphics image placed on the root window persists across all workspaces. You
can specify which workspaces cover up the root window with a backdrop.
However, the image visible when NoBackdrop is in effect will be the same for
every workspace.

Create the graphics image. It must be in a format for which a tool exists to
display the image on the root window. For example, if you intend to usexsetroot, you must create a bitmap file.

If it doesn't already exist, create an executable file`HomeDirectory`/.dt/sessions/sessionetc.Thesessionetcfile is run
each time the user logs in.

Place the command to display the image in thesessionetcfile.

For example, the following command tiles the root window with the
specified bitmap:xsetroot&numsp;-bitmap&numsp;/users/ellen/.dt/icons/root.bm
# Workspace Manager MenusmenusWorkspace ManagerWorkspace Managermenus


Workspace Manager has three default menus:

Workspace menuWorkspace menudefinition

Also called the root menu. Displayed when the user
presses mouse button 3 when the pointer is on the
backdrop. The menu is associated with the mouse
button through a button binding.

Window menuWindow menudefinition

The menu displayed when the user presses mouse
buttons 1 or 3 when the pointer is on the Window
menu button (upper left corner of the window frame).
The menu is associated with the button by thewindowMenuresource.windowMenu resource

Front Panel menuFront Panelmenu

The menu displayed when the user presses mouse
buttons 1 or 3 when the pointer is over the Front
Panel's Window menu button.
# Workspace Manager Menu SyntaxWindow menusyntaxWorkspace menusyntax


Workspace Manager menus have the syntax:Menu`MenuName`{`selection1`[`mnemonic`] [`accelerator`]`function`[`argument`]`selection2`[`mnemonic`] [`accelerator`]`function`[`argument`]&hellip;
}

where:

`selection`

The text or bitmap that appears on the menu. If the text
includes spaces, enclose the text in quotation marks. For
bitmaps, use the syntax @/`path`.

`mnemonic`

A single character that acts as a keyboard shortcut when the
menu is displayed. It is specified in the form_`character`.

`accelerator`

A keyboard shortcut that is active whether or not the menu is
displayed. Accelerators have the syntax`modifier`<Key>`Keyname`where modifier isCtrl,Shift,Alt(Extend char), orLock. For a list of all possible key names,
refer to thekeysymdef.hfile in your &ldquo;X11 include&rdquo; directory.

`function`Workspace Managerfunctions

The function to be performed when this selection is made.
Refer to thedtwmrc(4)man page for a list of functions.

`argument`

Function arguments. Refer to thedtwmrc(4)man page for
more details.

For example, the following menu item labeled Restore normalizes the window.
When the menu is displayed, typing &ldquo;R&rdquo; will also restore the window. Pressing
Extend char F5 will also restore the window.Restore    _R    Alt<Key> F5    f.normalize

For complete information on Workspace Manager menu syntax, see thedtwmrc(4)man page.
# To Modify the Existing Workspace (Root) MenuWorkspace menumodifiying$nopage>root menu, See Workspace menu


Open the appropriate file for editing:

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/dtwmrc

System-wide:/etc/dt/config/`language`/sys.dtwmrc

For information on creating these files, see.

Edit the description of the Workspace menu.

The default Workspace menu is namedDtRootMenuDtRootMenu.Menu DtRootMenu
{
    &ldquo;Workspace Menu&rdquo;   f.title
    &ldquo;Shuffle Up&rdquo;       f.circle_up
    &ldquo;Shuffle Down&rdquo;     f.circle_down
    &hellip;
}
# To Create a New Workspace (Root) MenuWorkspace menucreating


Open the appropriate file for editing:

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/dtwmrc

System-wide:/etc/dt/config/`language`/sys.dtwmrc

For information on creating these files, see.

Create the new menu:Menu`menu_name`{
        &hellip;
}

See.

Create or edit the button binding to display the new menu.

If the menu replaces the existing menu, edit the button binding that displays
the Workspace menu.<Btn3Down> root f.menu`menu_name`

If the menu is an additional menu, create a new mouse button binding. For
example, the following button binding displays the menu when Shift-mouse
button 3 is pressed over the backdrop:Shift<Btn3Down> root f.menu`menu_name`

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.
# To Create a New Window MenuWindow menunew


The Window menu is built into the Workspace Manager, and ordinarily
is not customized. To keep window behavior consistent between applications,
you should avoid extensive modification to the Window menu.

Open the appropriate file for editing:

Personal:`HomeDirectory`/.dt/dtwmrc

System-wide:/etc/dt/config/`language`/sys.dtwmrc

For information on creating these files, see.

Create the new menu:Menu`menu_name`{
        &hellip;
}

Use thewindowMenuresource to specify the new menu:Dtwm*windowMenu:`menu_name`

Choose Restart Workspace Manager from the Workspace menu.
# Customizing Button BindingsWorkspace Managerbutton bindingsbutton bindingmouse binding, See button binding


Abutton bindingassociates a mouse button operation and possible keyboard
modifier key with a window manager function. Button bindings apply to all
workspaces.

The desktop default button bindings are defined in the Workspace Manager
configuration file in a button binding set namedDtButtonBindingsDtButtonBindings:Buttons DtButtonBindings
{
  &hellip;
}
# Button Binding Syntaxbutton bindingsyntax


The syntax for button bindings is:Buttons`ButtonBindingSetName`{[`modifier`]<`button_nameMouse_action`>`context  function``[argument`][`modifier`]<`button_nameMouse_action`>`context  function``[argument`]

where:

`button_name`

Btn1&mdash;Left mouse button