
# Administering Application Resources, Fonts, and Colors


You can choose a wide range of colors and fonts for your display either by
using Style Manager or by customizing additional font and color resources.
This chapter discusses how to customize fonts and color resources.

This chapter also describes how to specify style translations forDtEditorwidget applications such as the desktop text editor (dtpad) and Mailer
(dtmail), and alternates forDtEditorwidget application menu accelerators
that conflict with these translations.UNIX key bindings











.
# Setting Application Resourcesapplication resources, See resources<$nopage>resourcessetting


Resources are used by applications to set certain aspects of appearance and
behavior. For example, Style Manager (dtstyle) provides resources that
enable you to specify where the system looks for files containing information
about color palettes:dtstyle*paletteDirectories: /usr/dt/palettes/C \HomeDirectory/.dt/palettes

App-default files for the desktop applications are located in the/usr/dt/app-defaults/`language`directory.resourcesapp-defaultsapp-defaultsdesktop applications
# To Set System-Wide Resourcesresourcessystem-wide


Add the resources to the file/etc/dt/config/`language`/sys.resources fileX resources, See resources<$nopage>sys.resources.
(You may have to create the file.)

For example, if in/etc/dt/config/C/sys.resourcesyou specify:AnApplication*resource:`value`

then the resourceAnApplication*resourcewill be set in each user's
RESOURCE_MANAGER property at the next login.
# To Set Personal Resourcesresourcespersonal


Add the resources to the file`HomeDirectory`/.Xdefaults..Xdefaults file[Xdefaults file]

Double-click Reload Resources in the Desktop_Tools application group.
# How the Desktop Loads Resources


Resources are loaded at session start-up by Session Manager. For information
on how Session Manager loads the resources into the RESOURCE_MANAGER,
see.
# Defining UNIX BindingsUNIX key bindingsEMACS style translationsDtEditor, style translations for


By default UNIX bindings are not enabled.
# To Specify EMACS-Style TranslationsEMACS translations


The following procedure specifies:

EMACS-style translations forDtEditorwidget applications such as the
desktop Text Editor (dtpad) and Mailer (dtmail)

Alternates forDtEditorwidget application menu accelerators that conflict
with these translations.

Add the following line to the`HomeDirectory`/.Xdefaultsfile:

#include &ldquo;/usr/dt/app-defaults/`language`/UNIXbindings&rdquo;

where`language`is the value of the LANG environment variable.

Restart your session.
# To Modify the EMACS-Style Translations


Insert the contents of the file/usr/dt/app-defaults/`language`/UNIXbindingsinto`HomeDirectory`/.Xdefaults.

Edit the bindings in the.Xdefaultsfile.

Restart your session when you have finished.
# UNIX Bindings Provided by the UNIXbindings FileUNIXbindings file


The/usr/dt/app-defaults/`language`/UNIXbindingsfile provides the
following bindings:

The Delete key deletes the previous character when the UNIX bindings
are enabled, and Shift-Delete deletes the next character.
Note that not all vendors' keyboards supply these keys.
Please see your local vendor's documentation for alternate key bindings.

lists
thedtpadoverrides for menu accelerators and accelerator text
that conflict with the UNIX bindings.
# dtpadOverrides for Menu Accelerators and Accelerator Text


`Menu Accelerators and Accelerator Text`

`Override`

Dtpad*fileMenu.print.acceleratorText:

Dtpad*fileMenu.print.accelerator:

Dtpad*editMenu.undo.acceleratorText:

Ctrl+_

Dtpad*editMenu.undo.accelerator:

Ctrl<Key>_

Dtpad*editMenu.paste.acceleratorText:

Shift+Insert

Dtpad*editMenu.paste.accelerator:

Shift<Key>osfInsert

Dtpad*editMenu.selectAll.acceleratorText:

Ctrl+/

Dtpad*editMenu.selectAll.accelerator:

Ctrl<Key>/

lists thedtmailCompose window overrides for menu
accelerators and accelerator text that conflict with the UNIX bindings.
# dtmailCompose Window Overrides


`Menu Accelerators and Accelerator Text`

`Override`

Dtmail*ComposeDialog*menubar*Edit.Undo.acceleratorText:

Ctrl+_

Dtmail*ComposeDialog*menubar*Edit.Undo.accelerator:

Ctrl<Key>_

Dtmail*ComposeDialog*menubar*Edit.Paste.acceleratorText:

Shift+Insert

Dtmail*ComposeDialog*menubar*Edit.Paste.accelerator:

Shift<Key>osfInsert

Dtmail*ComposeDialog*menubar*Edit.Find/Change.acceleratorText:

Ctrl+S

Dtmail*ComposeDialog*menubar*Edit.Find/Change.accelerator:

Ctrl<Key>s

The following translations provide (GNU style) EMACS control and meta
key bindings plus some additional bindings. When appropriate, they also
allow the Shift key to be used in combination with the normal binding to
reverse the direction of the operation. For example, Ctrl+Shift+F will move
the cursor backward a character since Ctrl+F normally moves it forward a
character.

The additional bindings are:

* **Ctrl+comma** 

backward-word
* **Ctrl+Shift+comma** 

forward-word
* **Ctrl+period** 

forward-word
* **Ctrl+Shift+period** 

backward-word
* **Ctrl+Return** 

end-of-file
* **Ctrl+Shift+Return** 

beginning-of-file


GNU EMACS binds delete-previous-character() rather than delete-next-
character() to the Delete key. Meta+F is normally the mnemonic for the File
menu, so the binding to forward-word() will be ignored. Use one of the
other bindings for forward-word (for example, Ctrl+period).

lists theDtEditor.textTranslations
# DtEditor.textTranslations


`Modifier Key

`Key`

`Action Routine`

c ~s

<Key>a:

beginning-of-line()\n\

c s

<Key>a:

end-of-line()\n\

c ~s

<Key>b:

backward-character()\n\

c s

<Key>b:

forward-character()\n\

c ~s

<Key>b:

backward-character()\n\

c s

<Key>b:

backward-word()\n\

m ~s

<Key>b:

backward-word()\n\

m s

<Key>b:

forward-word()\n\

c ~s

<Key>d:

delete-next-character()\n\

c s

<Key>d:

delete-previous-
character()\n\

m ~s

<Key>d:

kill-next-word()\n\

m s

<Key>d:

kill-previous-word()\n\

c ~s

<Key>e:

end-of-line()\n\

c s

<Key>e:

beginning-of-line()\n\

c ~s

<Key>f:

forward-character()\n\

c s

<Key>f:

backward-character()\n\

m ~s

<Key>f:

forward-word()\n\

m s

<Key>f:

backward-word()\n\

c

<Key>j:

newline-and-indent()\n\

c ~s

<Key>k:

kill-to-end-of-line()\n\

c s

<Key>k:

kill-to-start-of-line()\n\

c

<Key>l:

redraw-display()\n\

c

<Key>m:

newline()\n\

c s

<Key>n:

process-up()\n\

c ~s

<Key>n:

process-down()\n\

c

<Key>o:

newline-and-backup()\n\

c ~s

<Key>p:

process-up()\n\

c s

<Key>p:

process-down()\n\

c ~s

<Key>u:

kill-to-start-of-line()\n\

c s

<Key>u:

kill-to-end-of-line()\n\

c ~s

<Key>v:

next-page()\n\

c s

<Key>v:

previous-page()\n\

m ~s

<Key>v:

previous-page()\n\

m s

<Key>v:

next-page()\n\

c

<Key>w:

kill-selection()\n\

c ~s

<Key>y:

unkill()\n\

m

<Key>]:

forward-paragraph()\n\

m

<Key>[:

backward-paragraph()\n\

c ~s

<Key>comma:

backward-word()\n\

c s

<Key>comma:

forward-word()\n\

m

<Key>\\<:

beginning-of-file()\n\

c ~s

<Key>period:

forward-word()\n\

c s

<Key>period:

backward-word()\n\

m

<Key>\\>:

end-of-file()\n\

c ~s

<Key>Return:

end-of-file()\n\

c s

<Key>Return:

beginning-of-file()\n\

~c ~s ~m ~a

<Key>osfDelete:

delete-previous-
character()\n\

~c s ~m ~a

<Key>osfDelete:

delete-next-character()
# Administering Fonts2fontsadministering


Using the Style Manager Font dialog box, you can select the font size you want
for all applications. You can also specify fonts on the command line or use
resources to:

Set font resources for individual applications

Assign different fonts to be used by the Font dialog box

A`font`is a type style in which text characters are printed or displayed. The
desktop includes a variety of fonts in different styles and sizes.

Abitmap fontfontsbitmappedfontsbitmappedis made from a matrix of dots. (By default, Style Manager
configures bitmap fonts only.) The font is completely contained in one file.
Many files are needed to have a complete range of sizes, slants, and weights.

Fonts are specified as values of resources and as parameters to
commands. The X Logical Font Description (XLFD) name is the method by
which a desired font is requested. The system finds the font that best
matches the description it was given.fontsX Logical Font DescriptionX Logical Font Description
# Setting Desktop Font Resourcesresourcesfontsfontsresources, setting


The Style Manager Font dialog box enables you to set fonts (up to seven sizes)
for things such as text entry and labels.
# Resources Set by the Font Dialog BoxFonts dialog box


When a font is selected, the following resources are written to the
RESOURCE_MANAGER property:

SystemFontis used for system areas, such as menu bars, menu panes,
push buttons, toggle buttons, and labels. The following resource is set bySystemFont:

*FontList

Displayed in system areas of desktop clients and other
clients created using the Motif toolkit.

UserFontis used for text entered into windows. The following resources
are set byUserFont:

*FontFont resource

Supports earlier versions of X applications

*FontSetFontSet resource

The primary setting

*XmText*FontListXmText*FontList resource

Displayed in text entry boxes

*XmTextField*FontListXmTextField*FontList resource

Displayed in text entry boxes
# Resources Used by the Font Dialog Box


The fonts used for each selection in the Font dialog box are specified in the/usr/dt/app-defaults/Dtstyleresource file. Up to seven sizes can be
specified.

NumFontsNumFonts resourcefontsnumber of in Style Manager

Number of font sizes in the Font dialog box

SystemFont[1-7]fontssystem, in Style Manager

Up to seven resources assigning a specific font to a
Font dialog box selection forSystemFont

UserFont[1-7]fontsuser, in Style Manager

Up to seven resources assigning a specific font to a
Font dialog box selection forUserFont

The default fonts for these resources have been chosen for readability
on various displays. If you want a specific font for an application, set the font
with an application font resource rather than changing these desktop fonts.

For more information about application fonts, seetheDtStdAppFontNames(5)
andDtStdInterfaceFontNames(5) man pages.
# To List Available Fontsfontslisting available


Type the following:xlsfonts [-`options`] [-fn`pattern`]xlsfonts command

A list of XLFD names and font alias names available on your system is
displayed. Bitmap fonts show values in all fourteen XLFD fields. Scalable
typefaces show zeros in the`PixelSize`,`PointSize`,`ResolutionX`, and`ResolutionY`positions.

To check for specific fonts, use the pattern-matching capability ofxlsfonts. Use wildcards to replace the part of the pattern you are not
trying to match.

Ifxlsfontsdoes not show any font names starting withdt, your font path
does not include the desktop fonts. Type the following command to include
the desktop fonts into your available fonts:xset +fp`directory name`

where`directory name`is the directory containing the desktop fonts. The
default location set by session startup is/usr/dt/config/xfonts/`language`.

For additional information, see:

Thexsetandxlsfontsman pages list the available options.

Using the X Window Systemexplains font alias names and thexsetclient.
# To Specify Fonts on the Command Line


Use the-xrmcommand-line option to specify a font resource for a specific
client. For example:`application name`-xrm &ldquo;*bitstream-charter-medium-r-normal-8-88-75-75-p-45-iso8859-1&rdquo;
# X Logical Font Description (XLFD)fontsX Logical Font Description


A font is specified by listing fourteen different characteristics, separated by
dashes (-). This is called the X Logical Font Description (XLFD). In some cases,
a property in the list can be replaced by a * wildcard, and a character within a
property can be replaced by a ? wildcard.lists font property string
specifications.

The form of the property string specification is:fontsspecifying property string

&ldquo;-`Foundry`-`FamilyName`-`WeightName`-