
# Getting Started


App Builder is a development tool that makes designing, creating, and
prototyping a user interface easier. App Builder gives you the freedom to
create and try user interfaces without writing any code. Because you can create
and modify an interface easily, you'll find that you can spend more time
designing and testing, the surest route to better user interfaces.










# Application Builder Primary Window


The Application Builder primary window, shown below, is the starting point
for creating a user interface. See,
for a detailed description of the primary window.drag and dropcreatinginterfaceinterfacecreatinguser interface<Emphasis>See<Default Para Font> interface<$nopage>interfacecreatingcreatinginterfacecreatinginterfaceinterfacecreating
# Application Builder primary window


App Builderprimary windowThe basic method for creating an App Builder user interface is todrag and dropobjects from the App Builder primary window onto the workspace or onto
other App Builder objects. See, for
details.
# Starting and Exiting App Builder

# To Open App Builder from an Icon




If App Builder has previously been open and the App Builder icon is on the
workspace, double-click the icon to open App Builder.App BuildericonApp Builderstartingstarting App Builder<Filename | Command>dtappbuilder<Default Para Font> command

If App Builder is installed on the Front Panel, click the App Builder icon in
the Personal Applications subpanel to open App Builder.

To install App Builder on the Front Panel, see &ldquo;To Put an Application Icon in
the Front Panel&rdquo; in the Application Manager help volume for instructions.
# To Start App Builder from the Command Line


The command to run App Builder isdtbuilder. Do the following to start App
Builder from the command line:

Typedtbuilder

If dtbuilder is in your path, App Builder will start. If it is not in your path,
you will need to type the full path name (which, by default, is/usr/dt/bin/dtbuilder) or change to the folder wheredtbuilderis
located before typingdtbuilder.
# To Exit App BuilderApp BuilderexitingquittingApp Builder


Choose Exit from the File menu of the App Builder primary window to quit
App Builder.

If you have not saved all changes, a message dialog box will be displayed,
giving you the opportunity to discard the changes and continue the exit
process or to cancel the exit process and continue running App Builder.
Click Discard Changes if you do not want to save them. Click Cancel if you
do not want to discard your changes; you could then save your changes and
exit.App Builderquitting
# Overview of the App Builder Process


The basic process of building and maintaining a user interface with App
Builder is simple and straightforward. There are many variations on this
formula, but the process is similar for any application.App Builderoverview of processinterfaceoverview of creating and maintaining

Start App Builder. See.

Open a new project and a new module. See.

Drag and drop windows (main windows and custom dialogs) to the
workspace, creating a new module for each window, in most cases. See.

Drag and drop panes onto main windows or custom dialogs. See.

Drag and drop controls (buttons, choice objects, text fields, for example)
onto control panes. See.

Create pane objects, menus, and message dialogs. See.

Create help dialogs. See.

Edit the properties of interface objects. See.

Make functional connections between objects in the user interface. See.

Go into test mode to test menus, help, and connections. See.

Display the Code Generator to generate code and make the user interface.
See.

Add user code to the code generated by App Builder. See.

Debug the code, make and run the application.

Repeat the process to modify and maintain the user interface.
# Object Typesobject typestypes of objects


There are three basic types of objects on the primary window: windows, panes,
and controls. See, for
descriptions of each of the objects.

The windows in App Builder are:

Main window

Custom dialog

File selection dialog

The panes in App Builder are:

Control pane

Text pane

Draw area pane

Term pane

The controls in App Builder are:

Button

Check box (Choice object)

Combo box

Gauge

Label

List (scrolling list)

Menu bar*

Menu button

Option menu (Choice object)

Radio box (Choice object)

Scale

Separator

Spin box

Text Field

*The menu bar is not a control, but it is on the Controls palette. It can
only be dropped on a main window.
# Rules for Dropping Objectsrulesfor dropping objectsobjectsrules for droppingdrag and droprulesrulesdrag and drop


The rules for dragging and dropping the three types of App Builder objects are
explained below. An error message will be displayed if you attempt to drop an
object on an illegal target.

drop rulesfor windowswindowsdrop rulesWindows(main window, custom dialog, file selection dialog) can be dropped
anywhere on the workspace except for the App Builder primary window.

drop rulesfor panespanesdrop rulesPanes(control pane, text pane, draw area pane, term pane) can be dropped on
a main window, a custom dialog, or on another pane. Seefor more information.

controlsdrop rulesdrop rulesfor controlsControls(buttons, menus, boxes, for example) can be dropped on a control pane
or a group.

As noted above, a menu bar is on the Controls palette, but it is not
really a control. It can only be dropped on a main window. A menu bar can be
dropped anywhere on a main window; it will always appear at the top of the
window.