
# Laying Out a User Interface


The basic App Builder process for laying out an interface is to drag objects
from the App Builder primary window and drop them on the workspace or on
other App Builder objects.

Seefor a full
description of the primary window and its elements, and for a description of
the Module Browser.
















# Dragging and Dropping Palette Objects


The rules for dropping palette objects are simple; they are enforced by error
messages when they are violated.

Windows (main window, custom dialog, file selection dialog) are dropped
on the workspace.

Panes (control, draw area, text, and term) are dropped on windows or on
other panes.

Controls (buttons, boxes, choice objects, and others) are dropped on a
control pane. The menu bar, which is on the Controls palette, is not strictly a
control; it is dropped on a main window only.
# To Create a Main Window, Custom Dialog, or File Selection Dialog


Drag a main window, custom dialog, or a file selection dialog box from the
Windows palette and drop it on the workspace.creatingmain windowwindowscreating mainmain windowcreatingcustom dialogcreatingcreatingcustom dialog

If you haven't previously named the module, the Module Name dialog box
will be displayed. Move the cursor to the Module Name dialog box, type a
name, and click Apply.

The module name will be displayed in the status area at the bottom of the
window.

Edit the properties of the window object, if necessary.

This can be done now or later. Seefor general instructions. Seefor specific instructions for a main window or a
primary main window.
# To Create a Window with a Spanning Control Panespanning control panedescription ofwindowsspanning control pane


Often you will want a control pane to fill the entire blank pane area of a main
window or custom dialog. You can then drop controls or other panes on the
control pane to create a complex window such as the App Builder primary
window. Do the following once you have dropped a main window or custom
dialog on the workspace.

Drag a control pane from the Panes palette and drop it on the top-left cornercreatingspanning control panespanning control panecreatingof the main window or custom dialog.

Drag the bottom-right corner of the control pane (an arrow pointing
towards a corner will be displayed) beyond the bottom-right corner of the
window and release mouse button 1.

The control pane will be attached to the four sides of the window. If you
resize the window, the control pane will be resized with it.

Seefor details about
attachments.
# Selecting Interface Objects


For many actions, including editing, moving, aligning, and grouping, you need
to select one or more objects in an interface. You can only multiply-selectsiblings&mdash;objects that are children of the same parent. (All windows in a project
are siblings, for instance, as are panes in a window and control objects in a
single control pane. Panes that are dropped on a control pane and created as
children of the control pane function like control objects in the control pane.)

You can select objects in the interface or in the Module Browser. Seefor a description of the Browser. Seefor information about cutting,
copying, and pasting interface objects.

Only control objects can be grouped or aligned (using the Align and Distribute
functions).
# To Select Window or Pane Objects in the Interface or the Browser


Selecting an object in the Module Browser also selects it in the interface, and
vice versa.selectingsingle object

Select a single window (main window, custom dialog, or file selection dialog
box) by clicking mouse button 1 on the object in the Browser or in the
interface (click in the status area at the bottom of the window object).

Select an additional window by clicking mouse button 2 on the window in
the browser or in the interface.

Select a single pane by clicking mouse button 1 on the pane in the Browser
or in the interface.

Select additional panes in the same window by clicking mouse button 2 on
the pane in the Browser or in the interface.
# To Select Control Objects in the Interface or the Browserobjectsselectingcontrol objectsselectingselectingobjects


Selecting an object in the Module Browser also selects it in the interface, and
vice versa.selectingsingle object

Select one object by clicking it in the interface or in the Module Browser.

Select a number of adjacent objects by positioning the mouse cursor above
and to the left of the objects, pressing mouse button 1, and dragging themultiple-selectselectingmultiple objectsmouse to encompass other objects down and to the right of the first object.`drag-select`

Add or subtract an object to the current selection by clicking mouse button 2
on the object.

If an object is selected, clicking mouse button 2 on it deselects it.

To add a number of adjacent objects to those that are selected, position the
mouse cursor above and to the left of the objects to be added, press mouse
button 2, and drag the mouse to encompass other objects down and to the
right of the first object.objectsadding to selection

To deselect all but one object, click mouse button 1 on an object.objectsdeselectingdeselecting objects

Only that object will be selected.

When you have selected a number of objects in the interface, all the
objects will move if you press mouse button 1 on one of the objects and move
the mouse. A rectangular border will be drawn around the objects as you move
the mouse.
# Editing Objects in the Interface or in the Browserobjectseditingeditinginterface objectsbrowserediting objectsmodule browserediting objectseditingbrowsereditinginterface


Once you have created an interface by dragging and dropping objects on the
workspace or on other App Builder objects, you may want to edit the interface
in various ways. You can cut, copy, paste, and delete objects, and you can undo
the last editing function performed&mdash;and you can perform these functions in
the interface or in the Module Browser, or between the interface and the
Browser. Seefor a description of the Browser.

You can copy or cut any object you can select&mdash;from a single control to a
complex window with multiple panes and many controls&mdash;and you can paste
that object in any open module.

Objects selected in the interface are also selected in the Browser, and
vice versa. Seefor instructions for selecting objects. When you edit objects in the
Module Browser, be sure to check to see what is happening in the
interface&mdash;especially if you are cutting and pasting.
# To Cut or Copy Objectscutting objectscopying objectsobjectscut or copy


Select the objects you want to edit in the interface or the Browser.

Choose Cut or Copy from an Edit or pop-up menu.

Choose Cut or Copy from the Edit menu in the App Builder primary
window, from the Edit menu in the Module Browser, or from the pop-up
menu in either the primary window or the Browser (displayed by pressing
mouse button 3 in the interface or the Browser).

The chosen function (cut or copy) will be performed. If you choose Cut, the
selected objects will be deleted from the interface and placed in the App
Builder edit buffer. If you choose Copy, the selected objects will be placed in
the edit buffer.

Choose Undo before performing any other function to cancel the cut or copy
operation.
# To Paste Objectsobjectspastepasting objects


Once you have placed objects in the edit buffer by cutting or copying, you can
paste the objects in the interface with the Paste function.

Select the paste location.

Window: Windows can be pasted if any App Builder object is selected.Pane: Panes can be pasted if an App Builder window or control pane is
selected.Control: Controls can be pasted if an App Builder control pane or control
object is selected. If a control object is selected, the controls will be pasted in
the parent control pane.

Choose Paste from the Edit menu in the App Builder primary window, from
the Edit menu in the Module Browser, or from the pop-up menu in either
the primary window or the Browser (displayed by pressing mouse button 3
in the interface or the Browser).

The objects will be added to the current module and will be displayed
appropriately in the interface.

Pasted objects may obscure other objects; you may have to do some
moving and aligning after the paste. Seefor instructions.

Choose Undo before performing any other function to cancel the paste
operation.
# To Delete Objectsobjectsdeletingdeleting objects


Select the objects you want to delete in the interface or the Browser.

Choose Delete from the Edit menu in the App Builder primary window,
from the Edit menu in the Module Browser, or from the pop-up menu in
either the primary window or the Browser (displayed by pressing mouse
button 3 in the interface or the Browser).

The objects will be deleted from the interface.

Choose Undo before performing any other function to cancel the delete
operation.
# Aligning and Distributing Objects in an Interface


This section describes &ldquo;static&rdquo; alignment and distribution of objects: the objects
are aligned or distributed one time only. See, for instructions to find out how to group and attach objects
for &ldquo;dynamic&rdquo; alignment.
# To Align Control Objects in an Interfaceobjectsaligningaligning objects


Select two or more objects.

Seefor instructions.

Choose Align from the Layout menu of the primary window or the interface
pop-up menu (displayed by pressing mouse button 3) and select one of the
alignment icons from the submenu.

The selected objects will be aligned according to the alignment choice.
Choices are described below. Vertical alignment icons are on the left and are
described first.alignment choices



Left-edge: Aligns selected objects vertically along their left edges.

Vertical-center: Aligns selected objects vertically on their horizontal centers.

Right-edge: Aligns selected objects vertically along their right edges.

Colon: Aligns selected objects vertically along their colons or labels.

Top-edge: Aligns selected objects horizontally along their top edges.

Horizontal-center: Aligns selected objects horizontally on their vertical
centers.

Bottom-edge: Aligns selected objects horizontally along their bottom edges.

Grid: Does no alignment at this time.

If you select objects that are arranged horizontally and choose a vertical
alignment (or vice versa), the objects will end up on top of one another. You
can unstack the objects by choosing Distribute from the pop-up menu
immediately after the align function (the objects will still be selected). Seefor instructions.
# To Distribute Control Objects Evenlyobjectsdistributing evenlydistributing objects evenly


Select one or more objects.

Seefor instructions. Select one object to center it between the edges of its parent.

Choose Distribute from the Layout menu of the primary window or the
interface pop-up menu (displayed by pressing mouse button 3) and select
one of the distribute icons from the submenu.

The selected objects will be distributed or centered according to your choice.

Objects will be spaced 10 pixels apart horizontally or vertically if you
choose one of the distribute choices. If you choose one of the centering
choices, the object or objects will be centered within the boundaries of the
parent control pane.



Horizontal-space: Distributes selected objects horizontally 10 pixels apart.
The left-most object is the anchored object, which does not move.

Vertical-space: Distributes selected objects vertically 10 pixels apart. The
top-most object is the anchored object, which does not move.

Horizontal-center: Centers selected objects horizontally between the left and
right edges of the parent object, maintaining the distance between selected
objects.

Vertical-center: Centers selected objects vertically between the top and
bottom edges of the parent object, maintaining the distance between
selected objects.