Creating and Editing Panes, Menus, and MessagesMost App Builder objects are dragged from the windows, panes, or controls
palettes. Some objects (layered panes, paned windows, menus, and messages)
arecreatedobjects. This chapter explains how to create,
use, and edit these objects.Creating and Editing Pane EntitiesThere are four types of pane objects on the Panes palette of the App
Builder primary window: control pane, text pane, draw area pane, and term
pane. In addition, there are three types ofcreatedpane entities: child panes, layered panes, and paned windows.Child PanesAchild paneis a text pane, term pane, or draw
area pane that has been dropped on a control pane and made a &ldquo;child&rdquo;
of the control pane. In App Builder, for example, the Label field in the
Label Property Editor is a text pane that is a child of a control pane.child paneTo Create a Child Panechildpanecreatingchild paneDrop a text pane, draw area pane, or term pane
on a control pane in the interface.A message dialog box will be displayed, asking if you want to create
the dropped pane as a child of the control pane or as a layered pane.Click Cancel if you do not want to create a child pane or a layered
pane.Click Child.The pane will be instantiated at the drop location, just as if it were
a control object. The pane will be a sibling of the control objects on the
control pane. You will be able to select the pane and move it around on the
control pane just like any other control object.Layered PanesAlayered paneis a &ldquo;stack&rdquo;
of two or more panes, one on top of the other. In App Builder, for example,
the Revolving Property Editor, which is used to display the properties of
each of the interface objects, is a layered pane.layered panesdefinition ofTo Create a Layered Panelayered panescreatingcreatinglayered panesDrop a pane on another pane in the interface.A message dialog box will be displayed, giving you the option to create
a layered pane.If you have dropped a text pane, draw area pane, or term pane on a control
pane, you will also have the option to create the object as a child of the
control pane.Click Cancel if you do not want to create a child pane or a layered
pane.Click Layer.The pane will be instantiated as a layered pane on top of the pane it
was dropped on. Because it is the same size as the original pane, it will
obscure the original pane completely. If you resize one of the layers of
a layered pane, all panes are resized. Seefor instructions for viewing the layers of a layered pane.Once you have completed the interface you may want to change the Size
Policy of any panes in a layered pane to Fit Contents (the default value
is Fixed, which should be retained until the interface is complete). Each
of the panes might be a different size.There is no direct way tounmakea layered pane,
but you can accomplish the task by selecting one of the layers and choosing
Cut from the Edit menu of the App Builder primary window or from one of the
pop-up menus (displayed by pressing mouse button 3 in the interface or in
the Module Browser).If you want to save the layer you cut, select an
empty window and choose Paste from the Edit menu. Repeat the Cut and Paste
process until there are no more layers (this is easiest to see in the Browser).
If you don't want to save the layers, choose Delete instead of Cut.layered panesunmakingunmakinglayered panesTo View Layered Paneslayered panesviewingviewing layered panesdisplayinglayered paneslayered panesdisplayingOnly one layer of a layered pane is visible. To view other layered panes:Select the visible pane of the layered panes
in the interface or in the Module Browser.Selecting a layered pane in the Browser does not pop the selected pane
to the top of the stack of panes in the interface.Choose NextLayer from the View menu of the primary
window or from the interface pop-up menu (displayed by pressing mouse button
3).The layer immediately beneath the current pane will be displayed. Repeat
this step to view other layers.Paned Windowspaned windowsdefinition ofApaned windowis a combination
of two or more panes (control, text, draw area, or term panes, in any combination)
into one virtual window with multiple panes, one above the other, separated
by a movable sash. While the paned window maintains a constant height, the
individual panes become smaller or larger as you move the sash between them.A paned window's initial size and position are determined by the position
and size of its panes: the left margin of the paned window is determined
by the left (West) edge of the pane that is furthest to the left. The width
of the paned window is determined by the width of its widest pane.You can set limits on the minimum and maximum heights of any of the
panes by setting Pane Height in the Paned Window property editor. See,
for more details.Once you have created a paned window you can resize the panes by pressing
mouse button 1 or mouse button 2 on the sash and moving it up or down.To Create a Paned Windowpaned windowscreatingcreatingpaned windowsDrag a pane from the Panes palette and drop it
on a main window or a custom dialog.If you want the paned window to span the top of the parent window, drop
the pane on the top-left corner of the parent. The pane will be attached
to the window at its left and top margins with an offset of 0.Resize the pane, if necessary.If you want the paned window to span its parent window, drag the right
edge of the pane beyond the right edge of the window. The pane will be attached
to this edge, also.Drag one or more additional panes to the main window
or dialog and drop them on an unoccupied portion of the window.Select all panes that you want to be part of the
paned window.Use mouse button 1 to select one pane and mouse button 2 to select
additional panes.Choose Make Paned Window from the Layout menu or
from the interface or Module Browser pop-up menu (displayed by pressing mouse
button 3).The paned window will be created.If one of the panes is attached to the right (East) edge of its parent
and one or more of the other panes are not attached to the right edge of
the parent, the right edge of the panesnotattached to the right edge will be attached to the right edge. A message
dialog box will be displayed, explaining that the children of the paned window
have different East attachments and that the East attachment has been set
to that of the rightmost pane. You can adjust the right attachment in the
Attachments Editor. Click OK.To Add a Pane to a Paned Windowpaned windowsadding pane toaddingpane to paned windowDrop a pane on the paned window.panesadding to paned windowA message dialog box will be displayed, giving you the option to include
the new pane as a child of the control pane (if you drop a text pane, draw
area pane, or a term pane on a control pane), create as a layered pane, or
to add it to the paned window.Click Pane to add the pane to the paned window.The new pane will be added to the bottom of the paned window.To Unmake a Paned Windowpaned windowsunmakingunmakingpaned windowsSelect the paned window.Select a paned window by clicking at its edge. Be sure you select the
paned window and not one of its panes. You will know you have selected the
paned window if a dark box is drawn around the paned window.Or, open the Module Browser and select the paned
window there. This is the easiest, surest way to select a paned window.Choose Unmake Paned Window from the Layout menu
or from the pop-up menu in the interface or the Module Browser (displayed
by pressing mouse button 3).The panes that made up the paned window will become separate panes
again.Creating and Editing MenusAmenuis a list of items with meaningful
labels. Each item is connected to a function which is performed when the
menu is displayed and the item is selected. This section explains how to
create and edit menus, how to attach menus to objects, and how to connect
menu items to programmatic functions.menusdefinition ofMenus can be attached to menu buttons, menubar items, lists, and any
of the four types of panes. A menu is automatically attached to an option
menu, so there is no need to attach a menu to it.Menu Property EditorMenu Property EditorThe Menu Property Editor is used to create menus. A menu, unlike most
of the objects edited in the Revolving Property Editor, is a created object
and is not available from the object palettes.Only properties unique to a menu object are described here. Seefor descriptions of Object Type, Objects, Object
Name, and Color. Seefor descriptions of Items, Label, and Item State (Active).Add New MenuAdds a new menu to the list of menus.EditPerforms edit functions (Cut, Copy, Paste, Delete) on the selected
item in the list of menu objects. Cut and Copy place the selected item in
a buffer, ready for Paste. Delete removes the item, but does not place it
in a buffer.TearoffmenusTearoff propertySpecifies whether tearoff is Enabled or Disabled.
If tearoff is enabled the selected menu will be &ldquo;postable.&ldquo;
That is, the menu will be displayed until you explicitly dismiss it if you
click on the Tearoff indicator (a dotted line).Tearoff
menu propertyItem Label TypeItem Label Type propertymenusItem Label Type forSpecifies
the type of label (String, Graphic, or Separator) for the item selected in
the Items list. If Graphic is chosen, Label becomes Graphic Filename. If
Separator is chosen, Label or Graphic Filename becomes inactive and Line
Style becomes active. A Separator menu item is used to create a visual division
in a menu, such as that seen in the Editors menu of the App Builder primary
window.Item Mnemonicitem mnemonicmenu itemsmnemonics forSpecifies
one of the letters in the selected item as a keyboard shortcut for choosing
the item when the menu is posted. The letter specified will be underlined.
Pressing the mnemonic letter when the menu is posted causes that item to
be chosen. Note that case is significant and that a particular letter can
be used as a mnemonic only once within a menu.Acceleratoraccelerator for menu itemmenu itemsaccelerator forSpecifies
a keyboard shortcut for choosing the selected item. An accelerator is comprised
of a prefix (Ctrl, Alt, Meta, or Shift),<key>, and
a letter (uppercase or lowercase). To make Control-x an accelerator, for
instance, typeCtrl<key>x.