dtpdmduser cmddtpdmdPrint Dialog Manager daemondtpdmd-ddisplay-aselection-ppdm-Ppdm-s-llogfileDESCRIPTIONThedtpdmdcommand uses the Print Dialog Manager
Selection Protocol to start a Print Dialog Manager (PDM) on behalf of an
application.dtpdmdis a long-lived daemon process that receives
client requests for a PDM, uses some lookup rules, and then starts an appropriate
PDM to service the request. When the PDM finishes, control returns todtpdmdanddtpdmdin turn responds to the client
with the final status.PDMD/PDM Protocoldtpdmduses a specific protocol to communicate with
the PDM. Communication to the PDM is done via a standardized command line
and environment.
Communication from the PDM is done via standardized exit codes.Standardized Command LineThe standardized command line is as follows:dt-pdm-commanddt-pdm-options-vdisplayvdpy-windowvwid-pdisplaypdpy-pcontextpciddt-pdm-commandSpecifies the path for the PDM executable.
It is derived by thedtpdmdfrom either the-por-Poption.dt-pdm-optionsSpecifies options that may have accompanied thedt-pdm-command,
whether specified on thedtpdmdcommand line by the-por-Poption or from other sources.-vdisplayvdpySpecifies the display connection to the Video X-Server.-windowvwidSpecifies the window id on the Video X-Server to which the PDM&rsquo;s
dialogs should be posted as transient windows.-pdisplaypdpySpecifies the display connection to the Print X-Server.-pcontextpcidSpecifies the print context id on the Print X-Server. The PDM uses
this id to gain access to the print context being used by the requesting
application.Standardized Exit CodesThe standardized exit codes (defined as integer constants inDt/dtpdmd.h) are as follows:PDM_EXIT_OKThe PDM is telling the PDMD that the user selectedOKto dismiss the PDM.PDM_EXIT_CANCELThe PDM is telling the PDMD that the user selectedCANCELto dismiss the PDM.DM_EXIT_VXAUTHThe PDM is telling the PDMD that it did not have proper authority to
make a display connection on the Video X-Server.PDM_EXIT_PXAUTHThe PDM is telling the PDMD that it did not have proper authority to
make a display connection to the Print X-Server.PDM_EXIT_ERRORThe PDM is telling the PDMD that it encountered an error.all other valuesThe PDMD treats all unknown return values the same asPDM_EXIT_ERROR. Such return values are likely from uncontrollable exit conditions
often found in other libraries (for example, untrapped XIO errors from libX).OPTIONSThe following options are available:-ddisplaySpecifies the display connection to an X-Server upon which an X-selection
will be created and managed for requests. If specified, it overrides the
environment variableXPDMDISPLAY.-aselectionSpecifies an alternative X-selection name fordtpdmdto create and manage. If specified, it overrides the environment variableXPDMSELECTION. By default,
the selection name isPDM_MANAGER.-ppdmSpecifies a PDM execution string to use if no other PDM execution string
can be derived, usually from the Server Attributedt-pdm-commandfrom the X-Server.
By default, the execution string isdtpdm.
All execution strings are applied against the current search path.-PpdmSpecifies an alternative PDM execution string that overrides all other
sources of such execution strings. All execution strings are applied
against the current search path.-sInstructsdtpdmdto turn on the security exchange
portion of the PDM Selection Protocol. By default,dtpdmddoes not exchange security information with an application over the wire,
so the appearance ofauto hostingcannot be done.-llogfileSpecifies a file fordtpdmdto use for logging errors
and warnings. Entries are time-stamped and may be generated bydtpdmdor any child PDM via stderr. The previous contents of the
log file are destroyed. By default,/dev/nullis used.ENVIRONMENT VARIABLESPrior to starting a PDM, thedtpdmdmay
first modify the following environment variable:XAUTHORITYIf thedtpdmdhas come into possession of X-authority
information that the PDM will need, it sets this environment
variable so that the PDM will automatically have access to the proper
X-authority information.In addition, thedtpdmdmay set a locale hint
passed to it by the PDM Selection Protocol from the client prior
to starting a PDM. On POSIX systems,setlocale(3C)
will be used.RESOURCESNone.ACTIONS/MESSAGESNone.ERRORS/WARNINGSNone.FILESNone.EXAMPLESNone.SEE ALSOdtpdm1