Introducing the Help SystemThis chapter introduces the Help System and briefly describes the user
interface. It shows how help information is organized, outlines how to create
and process help modules, and discusses the collaborative role of authors
and developers in the design and creation of application help.introduction to Help SystemCDE Help System, introduction toIntroduction to the Help SystemThe Help System provides a complete set of tools to develop online help
for application software. It enables authors to write online help that includes
graphics and text formatting, hyperlinks, and communication with the application.The Help System also provides a programmer's toolkit for integrating
online help into an application. The Help System application program interface
supplies two specialized help dialogs and supporting routines that are used
to display, navigate, search, and print online help modules.Developer's ToolkitThe Help System Developer's Toolkit contains tools to write, process,
and view online help and contains an application programming library.For AuthorsDocBook markup language&mdash;a set of tags used in text files to mark organization and
content of your online help.DocBook software&mdash;a set
of software tools for converting the DocBook files you write into run-time
help files.Helpview application&mdash;a
viewer program for displaying your online help so you can read and interact
with it just as your audience will.Refer to,
to learn more about creating and processing online help.For Application DevelopersDtHelp programming
library&mdash;an application program interface (API) for integrating
help windows into your application.A sample program&mdash;a simple
example that shows how to integrate the Help System into a Motif application
(see).Chapters 9 through 13 discuss the application programming library.Overview of Online HelpIt's virtually impossible&mdash;and certainly impractical&mdash;for
anyone to learn and remembereverythingthere is to
know about the computer hardware and software they use to do their job. Nearly
every computer user needs help at one time or another.Online help, unlike a printed manual, has the power of the computer
at its disposal. Most importantly, this power makes it possible to adapt
the information to the user's current context.Context-sensitivehelp provides just enough help to get the user back on task. In
developing your online help, remember that users need different types of help
at different times. By anticipating users' questions, you can design your
application help to respond in a logical and intuitive manner.Help Information Modelinformation model, helpmodel, help
informationThere are two general styles of online help:Application help,
whose primary role is to be an integrated part of a Motif application.MotifMotifStandalone help, whose primary
role is to provide online access to task, reference, or tutorial information,
independent of any application software.standalone helpIf you are developing online help for an application, you may choose
to organize the information exclusively for access within the application.
Or, you may design the information such that it can be browsed without the
application present, as in standalone help.Part of the ApplicationHelp promotes a high degree of integration between the application and
its online help. From the user's perspective, the help is part of the application.
This approach minimizes the perceived &ldquo;distance&rdquo; away from the
application that the user must travel to get help.Staying close to the application makes users more comfortable with online
help and gets them back on task as quickly as possible.Types of Helpgetting helphelp, how users getOnline help can be divided into three general categories:Automatic help&mdash;The
application determines when help is needed and what to present. This is sometimes
called system-initiated help.Semiautomatic help&mdash;The
user decides when help is needed, but the system determines what to present.
Semiautomatic help is initiated by a user's gesture or request for help,
such as pressing F1. The system's response is called context-sensitive help
because it considers the user's current context in deciding what information
to display.Manual help&mdash;The user
requests specific information, such as from a Help menu.How Users Get HelpA user can request help in several ways. Most applications provide a
Help menu and Help key as well as Help buttons in dialog boxes.Help KeyWithin most applications, the primary way for a user to request help
is by pressing thehelp key. In recent years, the F1
function key has become a defacto standard help key for many workstation
and personal computer products.The Style Guide and Certification Checklist recommends the use of F1
as the help key, and the Motif programmer's toolkit even provides some
built-in behavior to make it easier to implement the help key in Motif
applications.Some computers provide a Help key on the keyboard.Help MenuThe Help menu is a common way to provide access to help information.
Motif applications provide a Help menu, which is right-justified in the
menu bar. TheStyle Guide and Certification Checklistmakes recommendations regarding the commands contained in a Help menu.Application Help menuHelp ButtonsMany dialog boxes also provide a Help button to get help on the dialog.
TheStyle Guide and Certification Checklistrecommends
that choosing the Help button in a dialog box be equivalent to pressing the
Help key while using that dialog. Exceptions should be made for complex dialogs,
where help on individual controls within the dialog box is appropriate.Help User InterfaceoverviewHelp graphical user interfaceThis section is an overview of the graphical interface provided by the
Help System. For a detailed description of Help features and capabilities,
refer to theUser's Guide; or, to view the corresponding
online help, you can open the desktop Front Panel Help Viewer (see).
Then choose, Common Desktop Environment and Desktop Help System.While using an application, a user can request help by pressing the
Help key or by selecting the application's Help menu. In addition, applications
integrating the Help System can be installed so that their respective help
modules are accessible from the desktop Help Viewer. This enables a user
to browse help information supplied by different applications without having
to run each application.Help WindowsWhen a user requests help, the Help System displays a help window. There
are two types of help windows: general help and quick help. A general help
window has a menu bar, topic tree, and a topic display area. The topic tree
lists help topics that a user can choose. The lower portion of the window&mdash;the
topic display area&mdash;displays the selected topic.A quick help window is a streamlined help window. It has only a topic
display area and one or more dialog buttons. Quick help windows are often
used for short, self-contained information such as a definition.General help and quick help windowHyperlinksHelp topics often contain hyperlinks that &ldquo;jump&rdquo; to related
help information. Both text and graphics can be used as hyperlinks.shows formatting styles used to identify hyperlinks.hyperlinkdisplay formatsSolid or dashed underscores identify words or phrases that are
hyperlinks. The solid underscore, or standard hyperlink, is most common.
When the hyperlink is selected, the related topic is displayed. An author
designates whether the hyperlink topic is displayed in the current help window
or a new window. The dashed underscore represents a definition link. When
selected, the related topic is displayed in a quick help window. A gray, open-corner
box (dashed or solid line) designates a graphic hyperlink.Formats for graphic and text hyperlinksHelp Navigationtopic treeselecting topicThe topic treetopic treein
general help dialogshown inis an outline of topics in the current help volume. The first topic at the
top of the list is thehome topic,or beginning of the
help volume. An arrow (&filig;) points to the current topic and shows the
user's location in the help volume.Topic tree in a general help dialog boxTo display a help topic, a user selects a title in the topic tree or
a hyperlink within the topic display area. The user can browse the outline
of topics by scrolling the list and then select any topic. Navigation commands
enable the user to return to previous topics or to the beginning of the help
volume.Help Navigation Buttonsnavigation, help buttonsbuttons, navigationThe general
help dialog includes three dialog buttons: Backtrack, History, and Index.
These features are also available as menu selections.Backtrack&mdash; returns to the previous topic. To retrace topics visited, press Backtrack
repeatedly until the desired topic is displayed.History&mdash; displays theHistorydialog box. This dialog box lists the help volumes and
topics that have been visited. To return to any topic in the list, select
its title.Index&mdash; displays theIndex Searchdialog box. This dialog lists
all the words and phrases that the author has marked as index entries. Selecting
an index entry, then one of the topics where the entry occurs, displays that
topic in the general help dialog.When using the Help Viewer from the desktop Front Panel, the general
help dialog includes an additional dialog button called Top Level. After
exploring different help volumes, a user can select this button to return
to the top-level of the desktop index help volume.Help Menushome topicmenu commandA general help dialog menu bar has five menus: File, Edit, Search,
Navigate, and Help. The Search and Navigate menus contain commands for the
index and navigation buttons described previously. In addition, the Navigate
menu has a Home Topic command that returns to the beginning of the help volume.
The remaining menus provide these features:File menu&mdash;
duplicates a help window, prints a help topic or the current help volume,
or closes the help window.menuFilemenuEditmenuHelpmenuNavigateEdit menu&mdash; copies text
from the help window to another application.Help menu &mdash;provides
help information that describes features of the help dialogs and how to use
them.Help IndexindexIndex search dialog indexA help volume has an index of important words and
phrases that the user can search to find help topics on a subject. A user
can browse or search the index of the current volume, selected volumes, or
all help volumes available on the system. Regular expressions such as * (asterisk)
and ? (question mark) can be used to search for topics. To view the corresponding
help topic, the user selects the index entry.Index search dialog boxBecause the help index can be large even for a single volume, index
entries can be expanded or contracted. A prefix notation, either a + (plus)
or - (minus) sign, is used to show whether an index entry is expanded or
contracted. A minus sign indicates that all of the entries are displayed,
whereas a plus sign indicates that the entry can be expanded to show additional
index entries.In, the -36 prefix
means there are 36 index entries displayed. The +3 notation identifies contracted
entries. Selecting a contracted entry causes the list to expand, and the
+ sign changes to a - sign. The last index entry shown in the figure has
been expanded in this manner.Index entry prefix notationPrinting from Helpprintinghelp informationPrint dialog boxHelp Topic Organizationhelptopic organizationAn author organizes help information into a logical framework. Most
times, but not always, this results in an outline, or a hierarchy of topics.
The topic hierarchy inconsists of a main
level, three sections, and subordinate topics. Although Help has been optimized
for information that is organized in a hierarchy, you are free to create
any kind of organization you want.Hierarchy of topicsHelp Topictopicdefinedhelp topicdefinedAhelp topicis a unit of
information identified with a unique ID. A set of tags provided by the Help
System is used to mark help topics and create a structural framework. The
Help Viewer, which is part of the Help System, is able to directly access
and display a help topic.help volumedefinedvolumedefinedHelp Volumevolumeas
collection of topicstopicvolume as collection ofAhelp volumeis a collection of topics that describe
an application or a particular subject. If you are developing application
help, typically there's one help volume per application. However, for complex
applications, or a collection of related applications, you might develop
several help volumes.help familydefinedHelp Familyfamilydefinition
ofgroup of related volumes, family
asrelated volumes, family as group
ofvolumefamily
of volumesOften, software is available as a set of related applications known
as aproduct family. For example, a set of office productivity
applications may include a word processor, a spreadsheet application, and
a drawing program. Because each application may have its own help volume,
it may be desirable to group the related help volumes in ahelp
family.A help family can include a single help volume or several
volumes.Assembling your help volumes into a help family is optional. It is required
only if you want your help available for browsing within ahelp
browsersuch as the Help Viewer in the Front Panel.Refer tofor a description of help family files and how they are used.Help Index Volumevolumedesktop
index volumehelp indexhelp index volumedefinedThe desktop provides a special help volume called theindexvolume that lists help installed on your system. Clicking the
Help Viewer control in the Front Panel displays the index volume shown inon.It lists help families (underlined titles) and any volumes that are
members of the help family.Index help volumeThe index volume allows access to application-specific help without
using the application. Or, if you are writing standalone help, this is the
only way for users to get to your help. Even if you have only a single help
volume, it must belong to a help family to be browsable using the Help Viewer.describes how to create a family file and what you need to do to make your
help volume accessible from the index volume.The Author's Jobauthorresponsibilitiesjob of authorresponsibilityauthorWriting online help differs from writing printed manuals, so it is important
to understand who you are writing for, how the information is accessed, and
how the information fits into an application.Objectives for Online Helpgoals for online helponline helpobjectivesThe two most important objectives for designing quality online help
are:Get the user back
on task as quickly and successfully as possible.Educate the user to prevent future need
for assistance.Applying these objectives will help you make decisions regarding what
type of help is best and what amount of detail is needed.Know Your AudienceaudienceknowingJust as with any writing, to do a good job, you must know your audience
and understand what they require from the information you are writing. Most
importantly, with online help, you need to know the tasks they are attempting
and the problems they may encounter.Consider How Your Help Is Accessedhelptypes of accessapplication helpIt is just as important to understand how users will access your help
as it is to identify your audience correctly.Application HelpIf you are writing help for an application, you need to decide which
topics are browsable and which topics are available from the application
ascontext-sensitive help. A topic is browsable if you
can navigate to it using the topic tree or hyperlinks. Topics designed exclusively
for context-sensitive help might not be browsable because the only way to
display the topic may be from within a particular context in the application.You must also decide if you want your application's help volume to beregistered. Registered help volumes can be displayed by other applications
(such as the Help Viewer), making the information more widely accessible.
If another help volume contains hyperlinks to topics in your help volume,
your help volume must be registered.Seefor information about installing and registering
your application.Standalone Help Volumesstandalone helpvolumestandalone helpIf you are writing a standalone help volume (a help volume not associated
with an application), you may choose to do things differently.First, you must provide a path for users to get to all the topics you've
written. That is, every topic must be browsable through at least one hyperlink.
Also, because there's no application associated with your help, you must
rely on a help viewer (such as Help Viewer) to display your help volume.Evaluate How to Present HelpAn application can incorporate different types of help. It is important
to evaluate what kind of help is best suited for your application. For example,
the same help information may be presented in a variety of ways. Some choices
include key features, a tutorial, examples, task instructions, shortcuts,
troubleshooting, reference information, glossary of terms, or referral to
hard copy or other online documentation. A help volume often combines different
presentations.Collaborate with the Application Programmerauthorcollaboration with application programmerapplication programmer, collaborating
withprogrammer, applicationcollaborating withIf you are writing application help, you should work closely with the
application programmer. The degree to which the Help System is integrated
into an application is a design decision that you make collectively.If an application and its help have very loose ties, there may be only
a handful of topics that the application is able to display directly. This
is easier to implement.In contrast, the application could provide specific help for nearly
every situation in the application. This requires more work, but benefits
the user if done well.It's up to you and your project team to determine the right level of
help integration for your project.Author's WorkflowauthorworkflowAfter designing your help, you create and process help topics to produce
a help volume. Your focus as an author is on these key tasks:Write help topicsCreate run-time help filesView the help volumeWrite Help Topics with DocBookOnline help is written in ordinary text files. You use special codes,
ortags, to markupelementswithin the information. The tags form a markup language
called DocBook.The DocBook markup language defines a hierarchy ofelementsthat define high-level elements, such as chapters, sections,
and subsections, and low-level elements such as paragraphs, lists, and emphasized
words.gives a brief description of using markup.Formal Markupformal markupdefinedmarkupformal (SGML)structured editoreditor,
structuredmarkup languageformal
markup, SGML-compliantFormal markupis
a Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) that an author can use to create
fully compliant SGML help topics. It requires start and end tags forallelements. Additionally, the structure of each element must
be explicitly tagged. Therefore, the number of tags increases significantly
using formal markup. Although an author can enter formal markup using a standard
editor, a structured editor is recommended.Structured EditorsNew tools, called structured editors, are becoming available in response
to the need to create SGML markup efficiently. Typically, a structured editor
provides a context-sensitive menu. That is, the elements that appear in the
menu dynamically change based on the location of the cursor in the document.For example, if you are entering a list, then the menu contains only
elements that are valid within the context of a list element. This built-in
&ldquo;intelligence&rdquo; allows an author to create markup easily.When an author chooses an element, such as section, title, or list,
the editor generates the corresponding start, end, and any intermediate structural
tags. For example, when an author selects a chapter element, the editor automatically
inserts the intermediate tags required by this element. The author simply
types the chapter title. Viewing the generated tags is optional; authors can
suppress the tags.Using Formal MarkupBefore you use formal markup, first read the chapters inP