Organizing and Writing a Help VolumeThis chapter describes the organization and components of a help source
file. It also provides a step-by-step example that shows how to process a
help source file to create an online help volume.Help Volume ComponentsA help volume has the following major types of components: entity declarations,
a top-level volume topic (contained in the Part element) meta information
(contained in the DocInfo element), book components (like Chapters, Sections,
Lists, and Tables), the index and the glossary.The Top Level Element: PartThePartis the top-level element in the structure
of a help volume. All other components are subelements of Part in the structural
hierarchy.The structural hierarchy under Part may be several levels deep with
Chapters containing Sect1s, Sect1s containing Sect2s, Sect2s containing Sect3s,
and so on. To help prevent users from getting lost, however, you should keep
your hierarchy as shallow as possible.Part may contain the following components in the following order: an
optional DocInfo, a required Title, an optional TitleAbbrev, an optional PartIntro,
and one or more other book components, like Chapters.Part has the common attributes and a label attribute.Topics and SubtopicsTopics and subtopics form a hierarchy below the Part. Typically, the
first level of topics is divided into chapters, using the Chapter element.
Within a chapter, topics are organized into sections, with subtopics of a
Sect1 tagged as Sect2s, subtopics of a Sect2 tagged as Sect3s, and so on.shows a
simple hierarchy that includes three chapters. Each chapter contains several
first-level sections. The third chapter adds two second-level sections.Help volume structural organizationPart
        DocInfo
        Title
        Chapter
                Sect1
                Sect1
                Sect1
        Chapter
                Sect1
                        Sect2
                                Sect3
                        Sect2
                Sect1
                Sect1
                        Sect2
                        Sect2
                                Sect3EntitiesAn author-definedentitycan represent a string
of characters or a file name. Anentity declarationdefines
the entity name and the string or file it represents.Entities are useful for:Referencing a common string of text.This is useful if there is some likelihood that the text may change
or you simply don't want to type it repeatedly. Each place you want the text
inserted, you reference the entity name.Referencing an external file.Entities are often used for accessing graphics files. The <Graphic> element
has an Entityref attribute, which refers to a graphic image file.All entity declarations must be entered before any other markup in your
help volume. To include an entity that you have defined, you use anentity reference.Entity references can be used anywhere within your help volume inside
a document type declaration. When you process your help volume with the DocBook
software, each entity reference is replaced with the text or file that the
entity represents.describes
how to define and use entities.Meta InformationMeta informationisinformation about
your information.In DocBook markup, meta information about a help volume is contained
in the DocInfo element.DocInfo may contain the following elements in the following order:Title (required)TitleAbbrev (optional)Subtitle (optional)one or more AuthorGroups (required)any number of Abstracts (optional brief descriptions
of the volume's contents)a RevHistory (optional)any number of LegalNotices (optional, giving information
on trademarks, copyrights, etc.)The Help System uses the meta information in DocInfo to display the
Title of a help volume and its copyright information. The Abstract description
is displayed by the desktop Help Viewer in the Front Panel. Other applications
capable of displaying help volumes could also make use of this information.shows you
how to create a meta information section.GlossaryThe glossary includes definitions for important terms that you've used
throughout your help volume. If a term is entered using the GlossTerm element,
then it automatically becomes a link that, when selected, displays the glossary
entry for that term.General Markup GuidelinesOnline help is written in ordinary text files. You use special codes,
calledtags, to markupelementswithin the information. The tags form a markup language called DocBook.If a standard text editor is used, DocBook markup is typed. If the editor
provides a macro package, tags can be stored and inserted using command keys.
DocBook markup can also be generated using a structured editor (see).The DocBook markup language defines a hierarchy of elements that define
high-level elements, such as chapters and sections, block-oriented elements,
such as paragraphs, lists, and tables, and low level in-line elements such
as emphasized words and symbols.Markup in Your Source FilesThe markup for most elements consists of a start tag and an end tag.
Start tags are entered with the element name between angle brackets (<
and >). End tags are similar, but the element name is preceded by a / (forward
slash). Case is not significant in DocBook markup tags.<Element attribute name="attribute value"> ... text ... </Element>For example, to mark the start and end of a book title you use markup
like this:<Title id="GSNW">Geographical Survey of Northern Wisconsin</Title>Where <Title> is the start tag, and </Title> is the end tag, and
GSNW is the value of the ID attribute of the Title element. If the element
has more than one attribute with a specified value, theattribute
name="attribute value" expressions are separated
by spaces.A Help Volume at a GlanceThe following schematic markup illustrates important elements of a help
volume and the tags used to enter them. Indentation is used here simply to
highlight the hierarchical relationship of the elements; you don't need to
indent the help files that you write.DocType
Part
        DocInfo
                Title
                AuthorGroup
                Abstract
                LegalNotice
        Title
        PartIntro
        Chapter
                Title
                Sect1
                        Title
                        Para
                        Para
                        Sect2
                                Title
                                Para
                                Sect3
                                        Title
                                        Para
                                        Para
                        Sect2
                                Title
                                Para
        Chapter
                Title
                Sect1
                        Title
                        Para
                        Para
                        Sect2
                                Title
                                Para
                        Sect2
                                Title
                                Para
        GlossaryHelp Source FilesOnline help is written in ordinary text files. You process, or compile,
these files with the DocBook software to create run-time help files that can
be read by the Help System.Creating Your volume.sgm FileDocBook expects a primary control file namedvolume.sgm, wherevolumeis a name you
choose.Be sure yourvolumename is unique
and meaningful. If yourvolumename is too
general, it may conflict with another volume that someone else has created.
If you are writing application help, one recommended practice is to use the
application's class name.Multiple Source FilesThe namedvolume.sgmfile contains
entity declarations and entity references to files that make up the help volume.
Although DocBook expects a singlevolume.sgmfile as input, you can separate your work into multiple source
files. Additional files are sourced into thevolume.sgmfile usingfile entities.
A file entity is like a pointer to another file. That file, in effect, is
inserted wherever the entity's name appears in thevolume.sgmfile. The referenced files can also contain entity references
to yet other files.ExampleSuppose a help volume has six chapters and each chapter is a separate
file. The files are: HomeTopic, Metainfo, TOC, Tasks, Reference, and Glossary.
Thevolume.sgmfile for the help volume
includes file entities for each of the six files and a list of entity references
that instruct the DocBook software to process the files....
&lt;!entity HomeTopic        FILE &ldquo;HomeTopic&rdquo;>
&lt;!entity MetaInformation  FILE &ldquo;Metainfo&rdquo;>
&lt;!entity TableOfContents  FILE &ldquo;TOC&rdquo;>
&lt;!entity Tasks            FILE &ldquo;Tasks&rdquo;>
&lt;!entity Reference        FILE &ldquo;Reference&rdquo;>
&lt;!entity Glossary         FILE &ldquo;Glossary&rdquo;>
...
&amp;HomeTopic;
&amp;MetaInformation;
&amp;TableOfContents;
&amp;Tasks;
&amp;Reference;
&amp;Glossary;The details of running DocBook are covered in.Help Files in File ManagerFile Manager represents help files as file icons with a question mark.
Inon, there is one source file (the one with the.sgm) and one run-time file (.sdlextension).
If you double-click a markup file, your standard editor opens the file for
editing. Double-clicking a (.sdlextension) file displays
the run-time file using the Help Viewer.File Manager view of help filesTo create a run-time help volume, first select the.sgmfile icon in File Manager. Then, choose Compile from the File Manager Selected
menu.See Alsodthelpaction(4)man pageWriting Your First Help Volume: A Step-by-Step ExampleTypically you organize your help files in ahelpdirectory. This step-by-step example demonstrates how to create and view a
standalone help volume. (As a standalone volume, it does not involve interaction
with an application.)To create and process a help volume, you follow these steps:Create the source directory for help files.Create the master DocBook file.Create the run-time help files.Display the help volume.Each task is described in the section that follows. The markup language
used in the text files is introduced later in this chapter. DocBook markup
is described more fully inand in theGuide to the DocBook DTD.Create the Source DirectoryCreate a directory namedhelpfileswhere you will create and process your help files.Create a text file namedCommands.sgmin the directory just created.For this example, all the information is put into a single file. Typically,
you will use multiple files to fully explain the system or application you
are writing help for.TheCommands.sgmfile contains text and element
tags. The element tags within the < and > (angle brackets) indicate the
structure of the information.Type the following markup text in theCommands.sgmfile.<Chapter>
<Title id="CommandSummary-id>Command Summary</Title>
<Indexterm><Primary>commands<Primary></Indexterm>
<Para>Your&product; is capable of the following operations:</Para>
<ItemizedList>
<ListItem><Para><Link Linkend="ChannelChange-id">ChannelChange</Link></Para></ListItem>
<ListItem><Para><Link Linkend="VolumeUp-id"> VolumeUp </Link>       </Para></ListItem>
<ListItem><Para><Link Linkend="VolumeDown-id"> VolumeDown </Link></Para></ListItem>
<ListItem><Para><Link Linkend="VolumeMute-id"> VolumeMute </Link></Para></ListItem>
</ItemizedList>
<Para>Choose one of the hyperlinks (underlined phrases)
to find out how to perform that operation.</Para>
<Sect1 id="ChannelChange-s">
<Title id="ChannelChange-t">Changing the Channel</Title>
<Indexterm><Primary>channel<Secondary>changing</Secondary><Primary></Indexterm>
<Para>Speak the command:
<Programlisting> channel</Programlisting>
followed by a number from <Command>one</Command>to <Command>ninety-nine</Command>.</Para>
</Sect1>
<Sect1 id="VolumeUp-s">
<Title id="VolumeUp-t">Turning Up the Volume</Title>
<Indexterm><Primary>volume<Secondary>changing</Secondary></Primary></Indexterm>
<Para>Speak the command:
<Programlisting>volume up</Programlisting></Para>
<Para>For additional volume, speak the command:
<Programlisting>more</Programlisting></para>
<Para>(See also <Link Linkend="VolumeDown-id">VolumeDown</Link>)</Para>
</Sect1>
<Sect1 id="VolumeDown-s">
<Title id="VolumeDown-t">Turning Down the Volume</Title>
<Indexterm><Primary>volume<Secondary>changing</Secondary></Primary></Indexterm>
<Para>Speak the command:
<Programlisting>volume down</Programlisting></Para>
<Para>To reduce the volume further, speak the command:
<Programlisting>more</Programlisting></Para>
<Para>(See also <Link Linkend="VolumeUp-id"> VolumeUp </Link> and <Link Linkend="VolumeMute-id">VolumeMute</Link>)</Para>
</Sect1>
<Sect1 id="VolumeMute-s">
<Title id="VolumeMute-t">Turning Off the Sound</Title>
<Indexterm><Primary>volume<Secondary>changing</Secondary></Primary></Indexterm>
<Indexterm><Primary>sound<Secondary>on/off</Secondary></Primary></Indexterm>
<Para>Speak the command:
<Programlisting>sound off</Programlisting></Para>
<Para>To restore the sound, speak the command:
<Programlisting>sound on</Programlisting></Para>
<Para>(See also <Link Linkend="VolumeDown-id">VolumeDown</Link> and <Link Linkend="VolumeUp-id">VolumeUp</Link></Para>
</Sect1>
</Chapter>Create a text file that gives the information a
title, provides copyright information, and provides other information about
the online help.In this example, the following text is put into a file calledMetainfo.sgmin the same directory as theCommands.sgmfile.<DocInfo>
 <Title> Using the &product;</Title>
        <AuthorGroup><Author>Jim Jonas</Author>
                </AuthorGroup>
        <Abstract> Help for Using the &product;.
                </Abstract>
        <LegalNotice>
        <BlockQuote>
        <para>&copy; 1995 Voice Activation Company.
        All rights reserved.</para>
        </BlockQuote>
                </LegalNotice>
</DocInfo>Create the Master DocBook FileCreate a text file whose name is of the formvolume.sgm. In this example,
the file is namedvoiceact.sgm.In thevoiceact.sgmfile,
defineentitiesthat associate the names of theCommands.sgmandMetainfo.sgmfiles with entity
names. Also, define any entities that are used (either directly or indirectly)
in theCommands.sgmandMetainfo.sgmfiles. Finally, refer to theCommands.sgmandMetainfo.sgmfiles by their entity names.In this example, the contents of thevoiceact.sgmfile look like this. The text within the&lt;!--&hellip;-->elements are comments, which are ignored.&lt;!-- Declare an entity for each of the source text files. -->
&lt;!entity MetaInformation  FILE &ldquo;Metainfo&rdquo;>
&lt;!entity Commands   FILE &ldquo;Commands&rdquo;>

&lt;!-- Define an entity that names the product and includes
        the trademark symbol (&amp;tm;). -->

&lt;!entity product &ldquo;VoAc&amp;tm; Voice-Activated Remote Control&rdquo;>

&lt;!-- Include the text files. -->
&lt;Part>
&amp;MetaInformation;
&amp;Commands;
&lt;/Part>Create the Run-Time Help FilesVerify that the/usr/dt/bindirectory is in your search path by typing this command in a terminal window:echo $PATHIf the directory is not in your path, add it to your PATH environment
variable. If you're not sure how to do this, refer to your system documentation
or ask your system administrator.Open File Manager and change to thehelpfilesdirectory. Select thevoiceact.sgmfile icon and choose Compile from the Selected menu in File Manager.This executes the DocBook software which creates a run-time version
of your online help volume (voiceact.sdl). Status and
error messages are placed in a new file, whose name is of the formvolume.log.Open thevoiceact.logfile
to check that your file processed without errors. If errors occurred, fix
them by editing or renaming the text files as needed.You can run DocBook manually in a terminal window.To do so, execute the following command:dtdocbook voiceact.sgmDisplay the Help VolumeFrom thehelpfilesdirectory, double-click thevoiceact.sdlfile icon.This displays the help volume using the desktop Help Viewer. You can
now scroll through the information and jump to related information by choosing
hyperlinks.You can run the Help Viewer manually in a terminal window.To do so, execute the following command, which displays the new help
volume:dthelpview -h voiceact.sdlSee Also,
on,
onCreating a Topic HierarchyThe topic hierarchy within your help volume begins with thePart. Each help volume must have one Part. The first level of subtopics
below Part must be entered with <Chapter> tags.Additional levels of subtopics are entered with <Sect1>, <Sect2>,
<Sect3>, <Sect4>, and <Sect5>. The DocBook markup language supports
five topic levels, but bear in mind that information more than three or four
levels deep often leads many readers to feel lost.When a help volume is displayed, the help window displays a list of
topics in its topic tree. Any topic entered with a <Chapter>, <Sect1>,
<Sect2>, <Sect3>, <Sect4>, or <Sect5> tag automatically appears
in the topic tree. This provides an easy way to browse and view topics.To enable users to display other related information from within a topic,
you create hyperlinks. To do so, you assign a unique ID to each destination
topic. Hyperlinks make it possible to reference a specific ID anywhere in
your help information.ExampleSuppose you want to create a hierarchy to match this simple outline:Tutorial for New Users
        Module 1: Getting Started
        Module 2: Creating Your First Report
        Module 3: Printing the Report
        Module 4: Saving Your Work and Quitting
Task Reference
        Starting and Stopping
                To Start the Program
                To Quit the Program
        Creating Reports
                To Create a Detailed Report
                To Create a Summary Report
Concepts for Advanced Users
        Using Report Hot Links
        Sharing Reports within a Workgroup
Reference
        Command Summary
        Report Attributes SummaryThen the general outline of your help volume would look like this.<Part>
<title>Welcome to ReportMaster</title>

<chapter>
        <title>Tutorial for New Users</title>
        overview of chapter topic
        <sect1>
        <title>Module 1: Getting Started</title>
                body of topic
                </sect1>
        <sect1>
        <title>Module 2: Creating Your First Report</title>
                body of topic
                </sect1>
        <sect1>
        <title>Module 3: Printing the Report</title>
                body of topic
                </sect1>
        <sect1>
        <title>Module 4: Saving Your Work and Quitting</title>
                body of topic
                </sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter>
        <title>Task Reference</title>
        overview of chapter topic
<sect1>
        <title>Starting and Stopping</title>
        body of topic
        <sect2>
                <title>To Start the Program</title>
                body of topic
                </sect2>
        <sect2>
                <title>To Quit the Program</title>
                body of topic
                </sect2>
<sect1>
        <title>Creating Reports</title>
        body of topic
        <sect2>
                <title>To Create a Detailed Report</title>
                body of topic
                </sect2>
        <sect2>
                <title>To Create a Summary Report</title>
                body of topic
                </sect2>
        </sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter>
        <title>Concepts for Advanced Users</title>
        overview of chapter topic
        <sect1>
        <title>Using Report Hot Links</title>
                body of topic
                </sect1>
        <sect1>
        <title>Sharing Reports within a Workgroup</title>
                body of topic
                </sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter>
        <title>Reference</title>
        overview of chapter topic
        <sect1>
        <title>Command Summary</title>
                body of topic
                </sect1>
        <sect1>
        <title>Report Attributes Summary</title>
                body of topic
                </sect1>
</chapter>
</part>(The body of each topic and IDs for the topics are not shown. Spacing
and indentations are only for ease of reading, and are not significant.)See Alsodescribes
assigning IDs to topicsdescribes
how to create hyperlinksTo Create a PartUse the Part element as follows:<Part>
        <DocInfo>
                <Title>Volume Title</Title>
                <AuthorGroup>
                        <Author>author's name here</Author>
                </AuthorGroup>
                <Abstract>
                        <Para>abstract here</Para>
                </Abstract>
                <LegalNotice>
                        <BlockQuote>
                        <Para>copyrights etc. </Para>
                        </BlockQuote>
                </LegalNotice>
        </DocInfo>
        <Title>Volume Title</Title>
        </PartIntro><Para>This is the home topic.</Para></PartIntro>
        <Chapter Id="chapid">
                <Title>This Chapter</Title>
                <Sect1 Id="sect1id">
                        <Title>Sect1 Heading</Title>
                        <Sect2 Id="sect2id">
                                <Title>Sect2 Heading</Title>
                ...
                ...
                ...
                        </sect2>
                </sect1>
        </chapter>
</Part>Part may contain the following components in the following order: an
optional DocInfo, a required Title, an optional TitleAbbrev, an optional PartIntro,
and one or more other book components, like Chapters and Sections.Note that the Title of the help volume appears twice, if a DocInfo is
present: once within DocInfo, and again as the first element following DocInfo.ExampleHere's a sample Part with a PartIntro that includes hyperlinks to the
Part's four subtopics:</Part>
<title>Report Master</title>
<PartIntro>
<Para>Welcome to the online help for Report Master. Please choose one of the following hyperlinks:</Para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><Link Linkend="Tutorial-id">Tutorial</Link> </para></listitem>
<listitem><para><Link Linkend="Tasks-id">Tasks</Link></para></listitem>
        <listitem><para><Link Linkend="Concepts-id">VolumeDown</Link></para></listitem>
        <listitem><para><Link Linkend="Reference-id">VolumeMute</Link></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>.
<Para>If you need help, press F1.</Para>
</PartIntro>
...
</Part>The preceding markup produces this output:To Add a Topic to the HierarchyTo add another topic at the same level, close
the element using its end tag, then repeat the same element by opening it
with its start tag.To add a subtopic (a topic one level deeper in the hierarchy), use the
element that is one level deeper than the preceding topic.ExampleIf the current topic is a <Sect1>, enter a subtopic using <Sect2>.<sect1>
        <title>Creating Reports</title>
        body of the topic
        <sect2>
                <title>To Create a Detailed Report</title>
                body of the first subtopic
                </sect2>
        <sect2>
                <title>To Create a Summary Report</title>
                body of the second subtopic
                </sect2>
</sect1>The second Sect2 is also a subtopic of the Sect1.Sometimes parent-child-sibling metaphors are used to describe the relationships
topics in a hierarchy. In the preceding example, the Sect1 topic is the &ldquo;parent&rdquo;
of both Sect2s (the &ldquo;children&rdquo; topics). The two Sect2s are &ldquo;siblings&rdquo;
of one another. All three topics are &ldquo;descendents&rdquo; of the Chapter's
topic.Creating Meta Information TopicsThe DocInfo meta information section is primarily intended forinformation about information. In the DocBook markup language,
Meta information for a help volume is contained in the DocInfo element that
may occur as the first component of a Part. DocInfo contains information about
the help volume's title and authors, may contain legal notices about copyrights
and trademarks, and abstracts of the volume's contents.DocInfo may contain the following elements in the following order:Title (required)TitleAbbrev (optional)Subtitle (optional)one or more AuthorGroups (required)any number of Abstracts (optional)a RevHistory (optional)any number of LegalNotices (optional)To Create a Meta Information SectionEnter the <DocInfo> tag to start the section,
and follow immediately with the required Title element, as shown:<DocInfo>
        <title>Volume Title Here</title>Enter the optional TitleAbbrev and Subtitle elements
if needed.Enter the required AuthorGroup element, which contains
one or more Authors, Collabs, or CorpAuthors, in any order.Enter the optional Abstract and LegalNotice elements
if needed, following these syntax models:&lt;Abstract Id="SDL-RESERVED-abstract">
        &lt;Para>abstract here&lt;/Para>
&lt;/Abstract>

&lt;LegalNotice Id="SDL-RESERVED-copyright">
        &lt;BlockQuote>
                &lt;Para>&copy; year &amp; copyright holder's name&lt;/Para>
        &lt;/BlockQuote>
&lt;/LegalNotice>Enter the DocInfo end tag to end the section.The Abstract section is recommended. Applications that access help volumes
can use this information to present a brief description of the volume. Because
the abstract might be displayed in plain text windows avoid including any
DocBook markup in the abstract.ExampleHere's a markup for typical meta information section contained in the
DocInfo element:<DocInfo>
<title>Report Master, Version 1.0</title>

<AuthorGroup>
        <Author>Jim Jonas</Author>
</AuthorGroup>

<Abstract>
        <Para>This is the online help for the mythical Report Master application. This help includes a self-guided tutorial, a summary of common tasks, general concepts, and quick reference summaries.</Para>
</Abstract>

<LegalNotice>
        <BlockQuote>
                <Para>
        Version 1.0
        &copy; Copyright Reports Incorporated 1995
        All rights reserved.
                </Para>
        </BlockQuote>
</LegalNotice>
</DocInfo>The BlockQuote element is used to preserve the line breaks in the copyright
notice. The&copy;entity inserts the copyright symbol.Adding a Nonhierarchical TopicTopics entered with the Chapter, Sect1, Sect2, Sect3, Sect4, Sect5 element
tags automatically appear in the topic tree. When a title is selected in the
topic tree, the corresponding help topic is displayed in a general help dialog
box.Sometimes you may want to create and display a topic independent of
the structural hierarchy you have created. These nonhierarchical topics are
useful for creating custom definition links that pop-up a topic in a quick
help dialog box.Appendix is the tag for a free-floating heading not tied to the Sect
hierarchy. It may contain inline elements.Appendix has the common attributes, including the ID attribute and the
XRefLabel atttribute, and also the Label attribute. When using the Appendix
element for nonhierarchical topics, the value of the Role attribute should
be &ldquo;notoc&rdquo;.To Add a Nonhierarchical TopicAdd the nonhierarchical topic using the BridgeHead
element as follows:<Appendix id="bh-some-id" role="notoc">text of the topic</Appendix>Presumably, a definition link to display this topic will exist within
some other topic in the help volume.The link might look like this:Here's a sample of a pop-up <link linkend="bh-some-id">
definition link.</link>The words &ldquo;definition link&rdquo; become the active hyperlink
and will be displayed with a dashed underline. Selecting the link displays
the text of the topic in a quick help dialog box.See AlsoAccessing TopicsMany elements in the DocBook language support an ID attribute. An ID
is a unique name used internally to identify topics and elements within topics.
Since ID is one of DocBook's common attributes, any element with the common
attributes can support an ID attribute.An ID is defined only once, but multiple hyperlinks and cross-references
can refer to the same ID. IDs are not seen by the user.If you are writing help for an application, IDs are also used by the
application to identify particular topics to display when the user requests
help.For example, you might write several topics that describe an application's
menus. The IDs that you assign to the topics are used by the application developer.
By defining identical IDs within the application code, the developer can integrate
specific topics. This allows the application to access and display the correct
topic when help is requested for a particular menu.Rules for ID NamesID strings may contain letters (A - Z and a
- z), digits (0 - 9), the period (.), and the minus (&minus;) sign. ID strings
must begin with a letter, and be unique at least within the document in which
they occur.Case in ID strings isnotsignificant, but is often used to increase readability.ID strings cannot be longer than 128 characters.Each ID within a single help volume must be unique.Built-in IDsA few elements have built-in IDs, and so do not support an author-defined
ID. Each of the following elements have predefined IDs (shown in parentheses):<PartIntro>( _hometopic)<LegalNotice> in <DocInfo>( _copyright)<Abstract> in <DocInfo>( _abstract)<Glossary>( _glossary)<Title> in <DocInfo>( _title)To Add an ID to a DocBook ElementYou include the ID string in the opening tag
of the element as follows:<Element ID="id-string">Note that the value of the ID string is enclosed in quotation marks.All the DocBook elements with the common attributes support an author-defined
ID. These are:AbbrevAbstractAnchorAppendixAuthorBlockQuoteBridgeHeadChapterComputerOutputCorpAuthorDocInfoEntryEntryTblExampleFigureGlossaryGlossDivGlossEntryGlossTermGraphicIndexIndexDivIndexEntryInformalTableItemizedListKeyCapLiteralLayoutOrderedListPartPrimaryIEProgramListingQuoteRefEntryReferenceScreenSect1 - Sect5SeeSeeAlsoSeeIESegSegListItemSegmentedListSegTitleSidebarSpanSpecTableTBodyTFootTGroupTermTitleTitleAbbrevToCUserInputVariableListVarListEntryIn addition to including IDs with DocBook elements that support them,
you can use the Anchor element to set an ID at an arbitrary point within a
document. The Anchor can then mark a target for a Link, which will take the
Anchor's ID string for the value of its Linkend attribute. Anchor is an inline
element that may appear almost anywhere. Anchor is an empty element, with
no content.Anchor can have ID, Pagenum, Remap, Role, and XRefLabel attributes,
but only the ID attribute is required. At the minimum, only the Anchor start
tag is present, with an ID.When you activate a link to a location ID, the Help Viewer displays
the topic containing the ID and scrolls the window to the ID position.Syntax of the Anchor element<anchor id="id-string">Example of the Anchor elementThere is an Anchor&lt;anchor id=&ldquo;077-ch02-AN-7&rdquo;>in this sentence.Using EntitiesAnentitycan represent a string of characters
or the contents of a file.Anentity declarationdefines the entity by associating
the entity name with a specific character string or file name.Anentity referenceis replaced by the string
or file contents when you process the help volume with thedtdocbookcommand.Entities are useful for:Referencing a given string of text.This is useful if there is some likelihood that the given string
of text may subsequently need to be changed, or if you simply don't want to
type it repeatedly.Once you have declared an entity to stand for a given string of text,
each place you want the text inserted, you simply reference the entity name.Referencing an external file, particularly
a graphics file.Entities provide one way of accessing graphics
files.The Graphic element points via its attributes to an external file containing
graphical data.The file that contains the graphical data can be specified by using
Graphic's Fileref attribute with the value of the filename, qualified by a
pathname if desired.Alternatively, if the file that contains the graphical data has been
declared an entity, it can be specified by using Graphic's Entityref with
the value of the entity name.File entities are also useful for splitting your DocBook source into
multiple files. Use entity references to include other files into your master
DocBook file for processing.Rules for Entity DeclarationsEntity names may contain letters (A - Z and
a - z), digits (0 - 9), the period (.), and the minus (&minus;) sign, and
must begin with a letter.Case isnotsignificant in
entity names, but is often used to increase readability.Entity names cannot be longer than 128 characters.Each entity name must be unique within a single
volume.To Create a Text EntityDeclare an entity as follows:<!entityEntityname"text string">WhereEntitynameis the name of the entity andtex stringtis the string that you want substituted for every reference
to the entity.Remember, all entity declarations must be contained
in the document type declaration of your help volume.For each location where you want thetext
stringto be inserted, enter the entity reference as follows:&Entityname;The&(ampersand) and;(semicolon)
characters are required for the DocBook software to properly recognize the
entity reference.ExampleThe following line declares a text entity named Assoc that contains
the string &ldquo;Society of Agricultural Engineers&rdquo;:<!entity Assoc "Society of Agricultural Engineers">The following sentence includes a reference to the entity:Welcome to the &Assoc;.When the help volume is processed with the DocBook software, the entity
reference is replaced with the value of the entity. So, the sentence will
read:Welcome to the Society of Agricultural Engineers.To Create a File EntityDeclare an entity as follows:<!entityEntitynameSYSTEM "filename">WhereEntitynameis the name of the
entity andfilenameis the name of the file. The keyword`SYSTEM`is required.Reference the entity as follows:If the file is a text file, enter the following
entity reference at each location where you want the contents of the file
inserted.&Entityname;The & (ampersand) and; (semicolon) characters are required for
the DocBook software to properly recognize the entity reference.If the file is a graphics file, include the name
of the entity as the value of the Entityref attribute like this:<Graphic ID="some-graphic-id"Entityref="Entityname"></Graphic>Example: Text File EntitiesSuppose you wrote the text for your help volume in three files namedfile1,file2, andfile3,
plus a fourth file containing your &lt;docinfo> &hellip; &lt;/docinfo> section.
You could include them in yourvolume.sgmfile like this:<!DOCTYPE DOCBOOK [
<!entity DocInformation SYSTEM "docinfo">
<!entity MyFirstFile SYSTEM "file1">
<!entity MySecondFile SYSTEM "file2">
<!entity MyThirdFile SYSTEM "file3">
.