Writing a Help TopicThis chapter describes elements that you can use to structure your text.
It also explains how to include graphics and how to create hyperlinks to other
help topics.Creating Help TopicsA help topic is a unit of information identified with a unique ID. Help
topics are grouped into a logical framework that best describes the product
for which you are writing online help.The hierarchy of elements provided by DocBook gives you the framework
for organizing the help topics you write. The hierarchy of elements is as
follows: Chapter, Sect1, Sect2, Sect3, Sect4, and Sect5.A topic's position within the hierarchy is determined by the element
which contains it, and how that element is embedded in higher level elements.
For example, if a topic that is tagged as Sect2 follows a topic tagged as
Sect1, that makes it a subtopic of the Sect1 topic.An ID is required if the topic is to be accessed either from the application
(if you are writing application help) or from a hyperlink. Typically both
the element that contains the topic and its title will be marked with IDs.
ID is one of the attributes of the elements Chapter, Sect1, Sect2, Sect3,
Sect4, Sect5, and Title.ExampleThe following line marks the start of a topic using the <Sect1> tag:<sect1 id="HRDC.WrTop.div.2">A Title is required for the elements Chapter, Sect1, Sect2, Sect3, Sect4,
Sect5, and immediately follows the start tag of the element. The markup would
look like this:<sect1 id="HRDC.WrTop.div.2">
<title>Help Topics</title>See Also, describes the general structure of a help volume,
including how to create a topic hierarchy.Creating Structure within a TopicWithin the body of a help topic, you have the following elements to
choose from to organize and present your information:Paragraphsare used for
bodies of text.Listsare used for listed
information. There are several types of lists: ItemizedLists (bulleted), OrderedLists
(numbered), VariableLists (for defining lists of terms), and SegmentedLists
(for comparably labelled sets of information).Tablesare for structured
arrays of information. There are InformalTables (untitled) and Tables (which
require a Title).Graphicscan be included within
your text asinline elementsor displayed between paragraphs
as standaloneblock-oriented elements. A Graphic points
to exterior files that contain the graphical dataHyperlinksprovide references
to related topics. A hyperlink may lead to a subtopic, deeper in the hierarchy,
or branch to a topic in a completely different part of the hierarchy, or even
in another help volume.Computer literalsare computer-recognized
text, such as file names and variable names, that can be displayed as either
separate example listings or inline elements.Notes, cautions, and warningscall the reader's attention to important information.Emphasisis used to highlight
important words and phrases within paragraph text.To Start a ParagraphGenerally you use the <Para> tag to mark the start of a new paragraph.
The DocBook DTD offers three kinds of paragraphs. Para may contain block-oriented
elements (such as Lists and Figures). SimPara may contain only plain text
and in-line elements. FormalPara requires a Title.If you want the paragraph to maintain the line breaks that you enter
in your source file, use the <LiteralLayout> tag.ExamplesHere is an example of a plain vanilla paragraph:<para>The Application Builder provides an interactive, graphical environment that facilitates the development of desktop applications. </para>The following LiteralLayout overrides the automatic word wrap in help
windows and maintains the line breaks exactly as entered in the source file.
The LiteralLayout element is especially useful for entering addresses.<LiteralLayout>
Brown and Reed Financial Investors
100 Baltic Place  Suite 40
New York, New York
</LiteralLayout>To Enter an ItemizedListAn ItemizedList is a list in which every item is marked with a bullet,
dash, or other dingbat, or no mark at all. An ItemizedList contains one or
more ListItems.A ListItem in an ItemizedList can contain paragraphs and other block-oriented
elements, including other lists.You can use the Mark attribute to specify the mark you want used in
the ItemizedList. There is no fixed list of values for the Mark attribute,
but you can used the ISO text entity that designates the dingbat you want
used. Your application might supply the mark that will be used for an ItemizedList.Here is the syntax you use for the ItemizedList element:<ItemizedList Mark="Bullet">
        <ListItem>
                <para> ... </para>
        </ListItem>
        <ListItem>
                <para> ... </para>
        </ListItem>
        ...
</ItemizedList>ExamplesHere is the markup for a simple ItemizedList:<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Creating a Mail Message</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Sending a Message</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Reading Your Mail</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>The preceding markup would produce an ItemizedList that might appear
as follows:Creating a Mail MessageSending a MessageReading Your MailTo Enter an OrderedListAn OrderedList contains ListItems marked with numbers or letters. A
ListItem within an OrderedList can contain paragraphs and other block-oriented
elements, including ItemizedLists and OrderedLists.OrderedList has the Common attributes, and also Numeration, InheritNum,
and Continuation attributes.The Numeration attribute specifies how the ListItems in the OrderedList
will be numbered or lettered. It may take the values Arabic, Upperalpha, Loweralpha,
Upperromman, or Lowerroman. If no value is specified, the expectation should
be that Arabic numbering is to be used.The InheritNum attribute takes on the values Inherit or Ignore. If the
value is Inherit, it specifies that the numbering of ListItems in a nested
list should include the number of the ListItem within which it is nested.
That is, if another Orderedlist is nested in the second ListItem, the ListItems
of the nested list will be numbered 2a, 2b, 2c, etc., rather than simply a,
b, c, etc.The Continuation attribute takes on the values Continues or Restarts.
If the value is Continues, the numbering of the OrderedList continues that
of the immediately preceding OrderedList. If the value is Restarts (the default),
the numbering of the OrderedList begins afresh. You need to supply the Continuation
attribute only if this OrderedList continues the numbering of the preceding
one.Syntax ExampleThe following markup:<OrderedList>
        <ListItem>
                <para>Creating a Mail Message</para>
        </ListItem>
        <ListItem>
                <para>Sending a Message</para>
        </ListItem>
        <ListItem>
                <para>Reading Your Mail</para>
                        </ListItem>
</OrderedList>Produces the following list:Creating a Mail MessageSending a MessageReading Your MailTo Enter a SegmentedListSegmentedList marks a list segmented into labelled parallel sets of
information.A SegmentedList may have an optional Title and TitleAbbrev, followed
by any number of SegTitles, and one or more SegListItems. Each SegListItem
has the same number of Segs as there are SegTitles in the SegmentedList to
which it belongs.Syntax ExampleThe following is a markup for a SegmentedList:<SegmentedList>
        <SegTitle>Nation</SegTitle>
        <SegTitle>Ethnic Groups</SegTitle>
        <SegTitle>Languages</SegTitle>
        <SegListItem>
                <Seg>Japan</Seg>
                <Seg>Japanese, Koreans, Ainu</Seg>
                <Seg>Japanese</Seg>
        </SegListItem>
        <SegListItem>
                <Seg>Spain</Seg>
                <Seg>Spanish, Basques</Seg>
                <Seg>Castillian, Catalan, Basque</Seg>
        </SegListItem>
        <SegListItem>
                <Seg>Belgium</Seg>
                <Seg>Flemish, Walloons<</Seg>
                <Seg>Dutch, French</Seg>
        </SegListItem>
</SegmentedList>Would produce a list which might appear like this:NationEthnic GroupsLanguagesJapanJapanese, Koreans, AinuJapaneseSpainSpanish, BasquesCastillian, Catalan, BasqueBelgiumFlemish, WalloonsDutch, FrenchTo Enter a VariableListThe VariableList element is used to create a list of terms and their
definitions.VariableList may have an optional Title and TitleAbbrev, followed by
one or more required VarListEntries.VarListEntry is a required component of a VariableList. VarListEntry
contains a Term element, which marks the term being defined, and a ListItem
element, which holds the definition of the term.ExampleHere is the syntx of the markup for a VariableList:<VariableList>
        <varlistentry>
                <term>first term</term>
                <listitem><para>definition of first term </para><listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        <varlistentry>
                <term>second term</term>
                <listitem><para>definition of second term </para><listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        ...
</VariableList>To Show a Computer ListingTo show sections of program source code without changing the spacing
or line breaks, use the ProgramListing element. Line breaks and leading white
space are considered significant in a ProgramListing and preserved as-is.ProgramListing may contain inline elements, including LineAnnotations.
(LineAnnotations are comments on the code by the document author, not the
comments written into the code itself by the author of the code.A ProgramListing may be embedded within the Example element. Example
typically contains a required Title and a ProgramListing.ProgramListing has a Width attribute, which takes on numerical values
representing the maximum width of the contents.Line breaks appear where you enter them in your source file. If the
example is too wide for the help window, a horizontal scroll bar appears so
the user can scroll to see all the example text.Do not include character sequences within a ProgramListing
that could be interpreted as DocBook markup tags. To avoid this problem, use
"&lt;" (the entity reference for the opening angle bracket) rather than
"<" to begin the names of markup tags.ExampleIn the following markup the ProgramListing element is used to represent
a directory listing in a terminal window.<programlisting>In this tutorial, you will edit these graphics files:
H_ActionIcons.xwd     H_HelpWindows.xwd
H_AppHelp.xwd         H_Hyperlinks.xwd
H_Canonical.xwd       H_Icons.xwd
H_FrontPanel.xwd      H_InlineGraphic.xwd
</programlisting>The markup produces this output:In this tutorial, you will edit these graphics files:
H_ActionIcons.xwd     H_HelpWindows.xwd
H_AppHelp.xwd         H_Hyperlinks.xwd
H_Canonical.xwd       H_Icons.xwd
H_FrontPanel.xwd      H_InlineGraphic.xwdTo Add a Note, Caution, or WarningUse the Note, Caution, and Warning elements as follows:<note>Body of note here.</note>

<caution>Body of caution here</caution>

<warning>Body of warning here.</warning>The icons associated with the Note, Caution, and Warning elements are
obtained from the following graphics files, relative to your.sdlfile:graphics/noteicon.pmgraphics/cauticon.pmgraphics/warnicon.pmThe default icons are in/usr/dt/appconfig/help/C/graphics. If you create your own icons, be sure to keep them small, so
they will fit into the area allotted.ExampleThe following markup for a note, warning, and caution produces the output
shown in.<note>
Before installing your application, complete the options checklist to determine the amount of disk space required.
</note>

<warning>
This product is highly acidic and can cause skin irritation. Wearing protective gloves is mandatory when applying this product.
</warning>

<caution>
Do not place your fingers near the parrot cage!
</caution>Note, warning, and caution help iconsEntering Inline ElementsInline elements are used to mark words or phrases within a paragraph
of text. These elements affect the font used to format particular items.To Emphasize a Word or PhraseUse the Emphasis element as shown:<emphasis>text</emphasis>ExampleHere's how you might emphasize an important word:A thousand times <emphasis>no</emphasis>To Cite a TitleUse the CiteTitle element as shown:<CiteTitle>title of a Book</CiteTitle>ExampleHere's how you would cite the title of this guide:<CiteTitle>The Help System Author's and Programmer's Guide<CiteTitle>To Mark the Title of a Book, Chapter, or SectionUse the Title element as shown:<Title>title of the Book, Chapter, or Section</Title>ExampleHere's how you would cite the title of this section:<Title>To Mark the Title of a Book, Chapter, or Section</Title>To Display a Computer LiteralTo display data presented to the user by a computer use the ComputerOutput
element as follows:<computeroutput>text</computeroutput>To Display a FilenameTo display the name of a computer file, use the Filename element as
follows:<filename>some filename</filename>ExampleThis markup:Add the entity to your <filename>Volume.sgm</filename> file.produces this output:Add the entityto yourVolume.sgmfile.To Display a VariableTo dispaly a variable, use the Symbol element as shown:<symbol Role="Variable">text</symbol>ExampleThis command-line syntax uses a variable to show that the user supplies
a file name.dtpad <symbol Role="Variable">filename</symbol>It produces this output:dtpadfilenameSymbol can appear within ComputerOutputs or ProgramListings.Creating HyperlinksA hyperlink references a specific topic or location in a help volume.
This requires that the element you want to reference is given a unique ID.All the DocBook elements with the common attributes can be assigned
IDs, including Chapters, Sects, Titles, Lists, Graphics, and Tables.Four DocBook elements are used in creating hyperlinks: Link, Anchor,
OLink, and XRef.Link marks a hypertext link. Link may contain
in-line elements, and it has Linkend and Type attributes.The Linkend attribute is required. It specifies the target of the link
by giving the ID of the element the Link is linked to.Link uses the SGML mechanism of IDREF in pointing to an element by its
ID. An SGML application may report an IDREF error when the ID specified in
a Linkend attribute does not occur in the document set being processed.Link has a Type attribute which may take the following values: Jump,
JumpNewView, AppDefined, and Man.A Jump link is the most common type of hyperlink. When the user chooses
a Jump link, the related topic is displayed.JumpNewView links are intended for cross-volume links. When the user
chooses a JumpNewView link, a new dialog box containing information is displayed.An AppDefined link is for invoking some application behavior. To invoke
this behavior, the help must be displayed in dialogs created by the application.A Man link, when activated, displays a &ldquo;man page&rdquo; which
gives a brief online explanation of a system command. The information on man
pages is not supplied through the DocBook system.Anchor marks a target for a Link. Anchor is an
inline element that may appear almost anywhere. Anchor is an empty element,
with no content. (Of course any element with an ID can serve as the target
of a Link.)Anchor has a required ID attribute. At the minimum, only the Anchor
start tag is present, with an ID.OLink marks a link that may perform some operation
to find its target.OLink has a TargetDocEnt attribute, the value of which is the name of
a text or data entity already specified by the user.OLink has a LinkMode attribute which points by an ID to a ModeSpec (located
for convenience in the BookInfo or DocInfo), which contains instructions for
operating on the entity named by the TargetDocEnt attribute. For example,
the TargetDocEnt may be another book, and the LinkMode attribute may specifiy
a ModeSpec that calls for all second-level headings to be searched for a particular
phrase.XRef marks a cross reference link to another part
of the document.Like Link, XRef has Linkend attribute, but like Anchor, it may have
no content.The Title of the element specified by the Linkend attribute is used
as they text of the cross reference.ExamplesThis Link gives the label of a hot spot explicitly:To go there,<Link Linkend="H1-122-ch10-1> click here.</Link>This Link points to a section and displays its title as the hot spot:Click to go to <Link Linkend="S1-123-ch12-1"         Endterm="T1-123-ch12-1"></Link>The following example references the section of the document that has
the ID "ch05-s1" and supplies the text of its Title.See <Xref Linkend="ch05-s1"> for more information.It might be displayed like this: "SeeTerminal Emulation
and Terminal Typefor more information."There is an Anchor&lt;anchor id=&ldquo;077-ch02-AN-7&rdquo;>in this sentence.To Create a Definition LinkIf you are linking to a term in the Glossary, use the GlossTerm element
as shown:<GlossTerm>text</GlossTerm>Whenever you use the GlossTerm element in the text, be sure you include
a corresponding GlossEntry in the Glossary that gives the definition of the
term.