Native Language SupportThis chapter identifies files used by the Help
System that require modification when a help volume is provided in multiple
languages.Internationalized Online HelpIf your product is intended for an international audience, then providing
online help in the user's native language is important. The Help System supports
the authoring and displaying of online help in virtually any language.When you process a help volume to create run-time help files, the DocBook
software must be told what language and character set you used to author your
files. The language and character set information is also used to determine
the proper fonts for displaying the help volume.Internationalization FactorsSeveral factors, which are explained in the following section, contribute
to providing effective online help in the user's native language.Character SetsAcharacter setdetermines how a computer's internal
character codes (numbers) are mapped to recognizable characters. In most languages,
single-byte characters are sufficient for representing an entire character
set. However, there are some languages that use thousands of characters. These
languages require two, three, or four bytes to represent each character uniquely.Character sets supported by the Help System are listed in. However, some characters sets may not exist on
all platforms.Common Desktop Environment Character SetsLanguageCharacter Set NameDescriptionWestern Europe and AmericasISO-8859-1ISO Latin 1HP-ROMAN8HP RomanIBM-850PC MultilingualCentral EuropeISO-8859-2ISO Latin 2CyrillicISO-8859-5ISO Latin/CyrillicArabicISO-8859-6ISO Latin/ArabicHP-ARABIC8HP Arabic8IBM-1046PC ArabicHebrewISO-8859-8ISO Latin/HebrewHP-HEBREW8HP Hebrew8IBM-856PC HebrewGreekISO-8859-7ISO Latin/GreekHP GREEK8HP Greek8TurkishISO-8859-9ISO Latin 5HP-TURKISH8HP Turkish8JapaneseEUC-JPJapanese EUC (JISX0201, JISX0208, JISX0212)HP-SJISHP Japanese Shift JISHP-KANA8HP Japanese Katakana8 (JISX0201 1976)IBM-932PC Japanese Shift JISKoreanEUC-KRKorean EUCChineseEUC-CNSimplified Chinese EUC (China) (GB2312)EUC-TWTraditional Chinese EUC (Taiwan) (CNS
11643.*)HP-BIG5HP Traditional Chinese Big5HP-CCDCHP Traditional Chinese CCDCHP-15CNHP Traditional Chinese EUCThaiTIS-620ThaiWhen writing DocBook files, you may use multibyte characters for any
help text, but the DocBook markup itself (tag names, entity names, IDs, and
so on) must be entered using eight-bit characters.DocBook SoftwareWhen you process a help volume to create run-time help files, the DocBook
software must be told what language and character set you used to author your
files. The language and character set information is used to determine the
proper fonts for displaying help topics. If you do not specify a language
and character set, DocBook assumes the default, which is English and ISO-8859-1.The language and character set can be defined in theLANGenvironmental variable, or by using the Lang attribute of
Part.When writing DocBook files, you may use multibyte characters for any
help text. However, the DocBook markup itself (tag names, entity names, IDs,
and so on) must be entered using eight-bit characters.DtHelpThe menus, buttons, and labels that appear in help dialogs should also
be displayed in the user's native language. To enable this, Help dialogs read
such strings from amessage catalognamedDtHelp.cat. The message catalog source file,DtHelp.msg, contains strings for menus, buttons, and messages. If the language
you need is not supplied, you must translate the sample message catalog
(/usr/dt/dthelp/nls/C/DtHelp.msg) and then use thegencatcommand to create the run-time message catalog file. Seefor instructions.Refer to your system documentation to determine the correct directory
where your new message catalog should be installed.LANG Environment VariableThe user'sLANGenvironment
variable is important for two reasons:The value ofLANGis used to locate the correct help volume.When a help topic is displayed, the correct fonts
and formatting rules are chosen based on the user'sLANGvariable. This is especially important for Asian languages
that have word-wrap rules that are more sophisticated than European and American
languages.See AlsoInternationalization
Programmer's GuideNLS documentation for your computer's operating
system or programmer's kitFormatting TablesA multibyte language, such as Japanese or Chinese, requires aformatting table. This table specifies a list of characters that
cannot start a line and those characters that cannot end a line. When help
files are processed, the formatting table ensures that lines wrap correctly.explains how to create
a new table or edit the sample table provided in the Help Developer's Kit.Font SchemesOne of the primary functions of the DocBook software is to convert your
marked-up files into a run-time format that the Help System understands. Text
is formatted by specifying particular attributes such as type family, size,
slant, and weight. Afont schemeis simply a name, like
an alias, that the Help System uses to assign fonts to DocBook elements such
as heads, procedures, lists, and so forth. It provides a way to map a group
of text attributes used by the Help System with specific fonts.Applications that use the standard Common Desktop Environment fonts
do not need to define additional font resources. If your application relies
on a different set of fonts, you must create and add a font scheme to your
application.See AlsoDtStdInterfaceFontNames(5)man pageDtStdAppFontNames
(5)man pageUnderstanding Font SchemesWhen you write a help volume using the DocBook markup language, you
don't specify the fonts and sizes of the text. When you run the DocBook software,
the elements that you've entered are formatted into run-time help files that
include text attributes.Afont schememaps text attributes to actual font
specifications. For example, if a help topic is formatted using a bold, sans
serif typeface, the font scheme identifies which Common Desktop Environment
standard font or X font is actually used to display the text.One of the primary uses of font schemes is to provide a choice of font
sizes. The DocBook software formats the body of most topics as 10-point text.
However, because the actual display font is determined by the font scheme
being used, all 10-point text could be specified to use a 14-point font.Font ResourcesEach font scheme is actually a set of X resources. These resources are
read by the application displaying the help. If you want to change the font
scheme, you can set font resources in your application's application defaults
file.Each resource within a font scheme has this general form:*pitch.size.slant.weight.style.lang.char-set:font specificationWhere:pitchSpecifies the horizontal spacing of
characters. This field should be eitherp(proportional)
orm(monospace).sizeSpecifies the height of the desired
font. For help files formatted with DocBook, this value should be6,8,10,12,
or14.slantSpecifies the slant of the desired
font. Usually this field is eitherromanfor upright letters
oritalicfor slanted lettersweightSpecifies the weight of the desired
font. Usually this field is eithermediumorbold.styleSpecifies the general style of the
desired font. For help files formatted with DocBook, this value should be
eitherseriforsans_serif.langSpecifies that volumes compiled using
this language should use these fonts. Usually the entry uses an * (asterisk)
so that all volumes using the specifiedchar_setwill use these fonts.char-setSpecifies the character set used to
author the help text. This value must match the character set that was specified
when DocBook was run. The default isISO-8859-1. Some special
characters are displayed using asymbolcharacter set.An * (asterisk) can be used in a field to specify a font that has any
value of that particular attribute. For instance, the symbol set (for special
characters and special symbols) distinguishes a unique font based only on
size and character set.Its font resources appear like this within a font scheme:*.6.*.*.*.*.DT-SYMBOL-1:  -adobe-symbol-medium-r-normal-*-*-60-*-*-
p-*-adobe-fontspecific
*.8.*.*.*.*.DT-SYMBOL-1:  -adobe-symbol-medium-r-normal-*-*-80-*-*-
p-*-adobe-fontspecific
*.10.*.*.*.*.DT-SYMBOL-1: -adobe-symbol-medium-r-normal-*-*-100-*-
*-p-*-adobe-fontspecific
*.12.*.*.*.*.DT-SYMBOL-1: -adobe-symbol-medium-r-normal-*-*-120-*-
*-p-*-adobe-fontspecific
*.14.*.*.*.*.DT-SYMBOL-1: -adobe-symbol-medium-r-normal-*-*-140-*-
*-p-*-adobe-fontspecificThechar-setfield is the only field that cannot use
the * (asterisk).To display multibyte languages, such as Japanese or Korean, font resources
must be specified using a font set. A font set is actually a group of fonts.
A resource entry for a font set is similar to a single font, except that a
, (comma) separates multiple font names and the specification ends with a
: (colon). Here is an example of a fully specified font resource for a Japanese
font set.bridge-gothic-medium-r-normal--18-180-75-75-c-80-jisx0201.1976-0,
bridge-gothic-medium-r-normal--18-180-75-75-c-160-jisx0208.1983-0,
bridge-gothic-medium-r-normal--18-180-75-75-c-160-jisx0212.1990-0:You can also specify fonts for a multibyte language by providing a minimal
XLFD font specification and allowing the system to supply the character set
value to produce a font set.*.12.roman.medium.*.ja_JP.EUC-JP: -*-*-*-*-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*:When specifying a font set, remember to end the specification with a
: (colon). This instructs the Help System to load a set of fonts to display
the information. Font sets are used to display multibyte languages. For volumes
containing single-byte information, use the standard font specification.Sample Font SchemesThe/usr/dt/dthelp/fontschemesdirectory contains
four font schemes:fontDef.fnsDefault fonts used by the Help SystemfontLarge.fnsExample of a larger fontfontMulti.fnsExample of a multi-byte fontfontX11.fnsExample of standard X11 fontsTo Choose a Font SchemeEdit the application-defaults file for the application that displays
the online help. Replace the current font resources (if any) with the new
scheme.If you are making this change just for yourself, copy the application-defaults
file into your home directory before editing it.ExampleTo use a larger size font (in the help dialogs) of a personal application
namedDtStopWatch, perform these steps:Change to your home directory:cdThen copy theDtStopWatchapplication-defaults
file and make it writable:cp /usr/dt/app-defaults/C/DtStopWatch.
chmod u+w DtStopWatchEdit theDtStopWatchfile to add the largest scheme
(fontLarge.fns. Go to the end of the file, and insert
the contents of this file:/usr/dt/dthelp/fontschemes/fontLarge.fns