Glossaryapplication helpOnline help for a particular application (software).application-defined linkA hyperlink designed especially for invoking some application behavior.
To invoke the behavior, the help must be displayed in dialogs created by the
application. (Application-defined hyperlinks are ignored by Helpview.)automatic helpHelp presented by the syste as the result of a particular condition
or error. Sometimes called &ldquo;syste initiated&ldquo; help. For example,
error dialogs are a for of &ldquo;automatic help.&rdquo; See alsosemi-automatic helpandmanual help.cautionA warning to the user about possible loss of data. See alsonoteandwarning.close callbackAn application function called when a help dialog box is closed.context-sensitive helpOnline information that is relevant to what the user is doing within
an application. Sometimes, pressing the F1 key is referred to as &ldquo;context-sensitive
help&rdquo; because the choice of help topic is based on the user's context.cross-volume hyperlinkA hyperlink that jumps to a topic in a different help volume. Cross-volume
hyperlinks are entered using the Link element, where the Linkend attribute
specifies the ID of the element that is being linked to:<link lnkend="some-id"></link>dialog cacheA list of help dialogs that has been created but may not be in use.
When the application needs a new help dialog, it first searches its dialog
cache for an unused dialog. If one is found, it is used. Otherwise, all dialogs
are in use, so a new one is created.Document Type DefinitionA description of a set of elements used to create a structured (or hierarchical)
information. The Document Type Definition (DTD) specifies the syntax for
each element and governs how and where elements can be used in a document.elementA logical portion of information, such as a book title, a paragraph,
a list, or a topic. Normally, the extent of an element is marked bytags, although the tags for some elements are assumed by context.emphasisAn element of text that calls attention to the text (usually by being
formatted asitalic).entityA text string or file with a name. Most entities are named by the author
(using the <!Entity> element), but some entities are predefined. See alsoentity declarationandentity reference.entity declarationMarkup that establishes an entity name and its value. See alsoentityandentity reference.entity referenceUse of an entity name preceded by an & (ampersand) and followed
by a; (semicolon) that indicates to DocBook that the entity is to be inserted
where the entity name appears. See alsoentityandentity declaration.entry pointA point within a help volume that may be displayed directly as the result
of a request for help. That is, a topic where the user may &ldquo;enter&rdquo;
or begin reading online help. Any topic, or location within a topic, that
has an ID can become an entry point.example listingA body of text in which line breaks are left as they are and which is
displayed in a computer font. The text is typically an example of a portion
of a computer file.execution aliasA resource that assigns a name to a command string or script that an
execution link executes.execution linkA hyperlink that executes a shell command or script. In DocBook, the
OLink element is the mechanism for this.execution policyThe Help Syste provides a resource that can be set to control the behavior
of execution links. This enables a syste administrator or user to establish
an appropriate level of security for any given application.figureA graphic or illustration that appears in the help information.formal markupA tag set and accompanying usage rules that are specified in the DocBook
2.2.1 Document Type Defnition (DTD). By following the rules set forth in the
DTD, an author can produce Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) compliant
help source files.general help dialog boxA window in which help information is displayed. General help dialog
boxes have a menu bar, a topic tree (which provides a list of topics), and
a help topic display area. See alsoquick help dialogbox.help callbackAn application function called when the user presses the F1 key.help familyA set of help volumes that are related to one another because the applications
they refer to are related.help keyA designated key, usually the F1 function key, used to request help
on the current context. Some keyboards have a dedicated Help key that may
take the place of F1. In Motif applications, the help key is enabled by
adding a help callback to a widget.help on helpHelp information about how to use the help dialog boxes. The user gets
this information by pressing F1 while using a help window, or by choosing
Using Help fro the Help menu in a general help dialog box.help volumeA complete body of information about a subject. Also, this ter can refer
to either the set of source files that contain the marked-up text or the run-time
files generated by running DocBook.History dialog boxA dialog box that shows a list of the sequence of topics the user has
visited. The history sequence can be traversed in reverse order to make it
easy for the user to return to earlier topics.hyperlinkA segment of text (word or phrase) or graphic image that has some behavior
associated with it. The most common type of hyperlink is a &ldquo;jump&rdquo;
link, which connects to a related topic. When the user chooses a jump link,
the related topic is displayed. Hyperlinks can also be used to invoke other
kinds of behavior, such as executing a syste command or invoking specific
application behavior.hyperlink callbackAn application function that is invoked when a user chooses a hyperlink.
This function is responsible for handling the types of hyperlinks not handled
automatically within the help dialog.indexA list of important words and phrases that appear throughout a help
volume. The index is an alphabetical list of the words or phrases that can
be searched to find help on a subject. The Help Syste displays the index when
the user chooses the Index button (in a general help dialog box). See alsoIndex Search dialog box.Index Search dialog boxA dialog box that shows a list of index entries for a help volume. An
index can be displayed for the current volume, selected volumes, or all help
volumes. A user can search the index for a word or phrase and any corresponding
topics that contain the search string will be listed.index volumeThe desktop uses the Helpview progra as a &ldquo;help browser&rdquo;
by displaying a special indexvolume that lists the help installed on the system.
A utility calleddthelpgencreates this volume in the user's
home directory.inline graphicA small graphic (illustration) that appears within a line of text.jump-new-view hyperlinkA hyperlink that, when chosen, displays its information in a new dialog
box. Jump-new-view links are intended for cross-volume links. The user senses
a &ldquo;new context&rdquo; by a new window being displayed.man page linkA hyperlink that, if activated, displays a &ldquo;man page,&rdquo; which
is a brief online explanation of a system command. The information in man
pages are not supplied through the DocBook system.manual helpA style of online help that requires the user to know what help is needed
and how to get it. For example, most commands in a Help menu are considered
&ldquo;manual&rdquo; help because the user chooses when and what to view.
See alsoautomatic helpandsemi-automatic
help.noteA message to the user that draws attention to important information.
If the information is critically important, a caution or warning is used instead.
See alsocautionandwarning.parserThe portion of the DocBook software that reads the source files (which
are created by the author) and converts the into run-time help files that
the Help Syste dialogs can read. If the author uses markup incorrectly (or
incompletely), the parser detects the problems and indicates that &ldquo;parser
errors&rdquo; have occurred.quick help dialog boxA streamlined help dialog box that has a help topic display area and
one or more push buttons. See alsogeneral help dialog box,
which offers additional capabilities.registrationThe process of declaring a help volume to be accessible for browsing
or cross- volume linking.run-time help filesThe files generated by thedtdocbookcommand. These
are the files distributed to users who will use the Help System.Search Volume Selection dialog boxA dialog box that lists the help volumes available on a user's system.
When a user chooses Selected fro the Index Search dialog box, this dialog
box lists help volumes that the user can select. One or more volume names
can be selected and the corresponding index information is reported in the
Index Search dialog box.semi-automatic helpA style of online help in which the user requests help and the system
decides, based on the current circumstances, which help information to display. &ldquo;Context-sensitive&rdquo;
help (pressing the F1 key) is an example of semi-automatic help. See alsoautomatic helpandmanual help.standalone helpHelp information intended to be used independently of application software.
For example, online help that explains the basics of computer programming
may not be associated with a particular application. A standalone help volume
can be displayed using thedthelpviewcommand.Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML)An international standard [ISO 8879: 1986] that establishes a method
for information interchange. SGML prescribes constructs for marking the structure
of information separate fro its intended presentation or format. The DocBook
markup language conforms to this SGML standard.tagA text string that marks the beginning or end of an element. A start
tag consists of a < (left angle bracket) followed by a special character
string (consisting of only letters), optional attributes and values, and terminated
by a > (right angle bracket).An end tag consists of a < (left angle bracket), a / (forward slash),
the same special character string, and a > (right angle bracket).Tagged Image File Format (TIFF)A standard graphics file format. The Help Syste dialog boxes support
TIFF 5.0 images. TIFF images are identified by the.tiffile-name extension.topicInformation about a specific subject. Usually, this is approximately
one screenful of information. Online help topics are linked to one another
through hyperlinks.topic hierarchyA help volume's branching structure in which the home topic branches
out (through hyperlinks) to progressively more detailed topics. See alsohome topic.topic treeIn a general help dialog box, a list of topics that can be selected
to display help information.warningInformation that warns the user about possible injury or unrecoverable
loss of data. See alsocautionandnote.widgetThe fundamental building block of graphical user interfaces. The Motif
widget set provides widgets of all sorts, suitable for constructing an application
user interface.X bitmapA two-tone image that has one foreground color and one background color.
Bitmap image files are identified by the.bmfile-name
extension.X pixmapA multicolor image. Pixmap image files are identified by the.pmfile-name extension.X window dumpAn image captured from an X Window System