
# About the Build Process and Tools
information librariesbuildingprocess overview

This section offers a brief overview of the build process you
perform to create an on-line information library. It also discusses
the software tools available in the Information Manager
for performing the build.

To build an on-line information library with the
Information Manager,
you must supply a set of SGML-conforming document(s) for the
books you will be building, including the appropriate document
type definitions (DTDs), book source documents, a table of
contents (TOC) for each book, the style sheet(s) that control the
on-line and printed format of the books, and a bookcase
specification that organizes the source documents.

The DTDs associated with your books must use the
Information Manager Architectural Forms. For information on applying these
architectural forms to your DTDs, seeUsing Architectural
Forms.
# Process Overview
software toolsprocess overview

The general process for producing and administering
Information Manager browser files from SGML source is covered in these
sections:

Preparing to Build. This section includes:

A discussion of the files you need to successfully
validate and build a book that is browsable with the Information Manager
including:

the SGML documents that make up a
book

a hypertext TOC for each book

style sheet(s)

a bookcase specification

a procedure for creating a valid hypertext TOC

a description of how the Information Manager uses style
sheets and how you specify style sheets in your bookcase specification

a procedure for creating a bookcase specification

an example bookcase specification

Building Information Libraries.
This section explains how to:

validateyour SGML documents

builda new information library

adda bookcase to an existing library

replacea bookcase in an existing library

updatestyle sheets in built bookcases

Administering Bookcases.
This section describes how to copy, remove, list, rename, or rearrange
bookcases in an information library.
# Tools Overview
information librariesbuildingtools overviewsoftware toolsoverview

To build a library using the Information Manager, you:

Create a hypertext table of contents for each book based
on thedtinfoTOC.dtd(5).

SeeCreating a Table of Contents.

Supply or create valid Information Manager style sheet(s), based on thedtinfoStyle.dtd(5)for the SGML documents that will be built.

SeeUnderstanding Information Manager Style Sheets.

Create a bookcase specification based on thedtinfoBook.dtd(5).

SeeCreating a Bookcase Specification.

Build browser-readable information libraries using thedtdocbook2infolib buildcommand.

SeeBuilding Information Libraries.

On Information Manager libraries that are already built, you can:

Replace existing style sheets or style sheet information
in the document database, without rebuilding the
database, using thedtdocbook2infolib updatecommand.

SeeUpdating Style Sheets in Built Bookcases.

Add or replace a bookcase in the library using thedtdocbook2infolib buildcommand.

SeeAdding a Bookcase to an Existing LibraryandReplacing a Bookcase in an Existing Library.

Copy, remove, rename, list, or rearrange bookcases in a
library using thedtdocbook2infolib admincommand.

SeeAdministering Bookcases.