
# Troubleshooting
troubleshooting

This section describes problems that may occur with the
Information Manager tools as a result of:

Build Errors&mdash; these errors can occur during thedtdocbook2infolib build,dtdocbook2infolib tocgen, anddtdocbook2infolib updateprocesses.

Style Sheet Errors&mdash; these errors can occur during thedtdocbook2infolib buildor thedtdocbook2infolib updateprocesses.

Library Administration Errors&mdash; these errors occur
during thedtdocbook2infolib adminprocess.

For more information, seedtdocbook2infolib(1).
# Build Errors


The following error messages are generally associated with the
build process and are generated by either thedtdocbook2infolib build,dtdocbook2infolib tocgen, ordtdocbook2infolib updateprograms.The following error message:(ERROR) An undeclared style sheet name NAME was
found in the bookcase specification.means that style sheetNAMEis specified in the bookcase
specification but has not been declared anywhere.

You must include the style sheet explicitly. One way of
including a style sheet is through the use of an entity
reference.The following error message:(ERROR) An illegal ToC was found.means that
the Information Manager found more than one TOC within the same
book.

Only one TOC is allowed for each book.The following error message:(ERROR) Memory exhausted.means that insufficient memory was available to complete the build.

You must increase the memory available for the build
process. SeeBuild Considerationsfor more information
about allocating memory for the build process.The following error message:(ERROR) ToC validation failed.means that TOC validation failed.

Check the log of the build for details on where to find the error.The following error message:(ERROR) IDREF =LINK"	  of ToC file =FILE"	  at line =LINE"      is pointing to an unavailable section.means that a hypertext linkLINKat lineLINEin the TOC fileFILEdoes not have a destination section.

Supply a unique ID for the destination section.The following error message:(ERROR) Section ID =ID"       of file =FILE"       at line =LINE"       does not have a corresponding link with
   "       the value =ID"       from the
   "       TOC file =TOCFILE.means that no link exists from the TOC fileTOCFILEto the sectionIDforFILE.

Check the TOC fileTOCFILEand add a link with the valueIDto the TOC.The following error message:(ERROR) Duplicate ID =ID"       found in file =FILENAME1"       at line =LINE1"       is in conflict with
   "       ID =ID"       found in file =FILE2"       at line =LINE2.means that the Information Manager found the duplicate ID valueIDin bothFILE1andFILE2.

Each ID value must be unique. Change the appropriate
ID value to make it unique. Be sure to update the TOC
file with the new value.The following error message:(ERROR) Duplicate section ID =ID"       found in the file =FILE1"       at line =LINE1"       is in conflict with section ID =ID"       in file =FILE2"       at line=LINE2.means that the Information Manager found the duplicate section ID valueIDin bothFILE1andFILE2.

Each section ID value must be unique. Change the
appropriate section ID value to make it unique. Be sure
to update the TOC file with the new value.The following error message:(ERROR) Tab ID =TabId"       of book =bookName"       specified in file =FILE1"       at line =LINE"       is not pointing to any
   "       section ID found in the book.means that the tab ID valueTabIdlisted inbookNamewas not
found in the files that comprisebookName.

All tabs must point to a valid section in the book. Make
sure the tab ID is pointing to a valid section.The following error message:(ERROR) Style sheet validation failed.means that a syntax error was found in the style sheet.

Correct the syntax error in the style sheet.The following error message:(ERROR) An ID could not be found for the graphical
object.means that the graphical object did not have an ID.
Supply a non-empty ID value for the graphical object.The following error message:(ERROR) Terms file does not exist.means that there is insufficient disk space
to contain a temporary file for searchable terms information.

Verify that you have enough disk space to perform the build.
# Style Sheet Errors


The following error messages are associated with style sheets.
For information about creating and using style sheets, seeUnderstanding Information Manager Style SheetsandCreating a Style Sheet.The following error message:(ERROR) Autonumber: missing ID attribute.means that the ID attribute for autonumbering could not be found.
Specify the ID attribute for autonumbering.The following error message:(ERROR) Autonumber: missing Type attribute.means that the Type attribute for autonumbering could not be found.
Specify the Type attribute for autonumbering.The following error message:(ERROR) Autonumber: missing Initial attribute.means that the Initial attribute for autonumbering could not be found.
Specify the Initial attribute for autonumbering.The following error message:(ERROR) Autonumber: missing Delta attribute.means that the Delta attribute for autonumbering could not be found.
Specify the Delta attribute for autonumbering.The following error message:(ERROR) Autonumber: missing Reset attribute.means that the Reset attribute for autonumbering could not be found.
Specify the Reset attribute for autonumbering.The following error message:(ERROR) Autonumber: missing Counter attribute.means that the Counter for autonumbering could not be found.
Specify the Counter attribute for autonumbering.The following error message:(ERROR) No name given for the style sheet.means that the style sheet name was missing.
Specify the style sheet name.The following error message:(ERROR) Syntax error inEXPR.means that a syntax error was found in the expressionEXPRspecified for an Information Manager architectural form.

Search for the expressionEXPRin the DTD and correct
the syntax for the Information Manager architectural form.
# Library Administration Messages


The following error messages are associated with thedtdocbook2infolib admincommand.The following error message:(ERROR)InfoLibPathis not a valid information library.means that theInfoLibPathyou specified may
be an invalid path, or the information library itself may be invalid.
Enter the correct path name, or check to see if there is a file named*.oliunder theInfoLibPathyou chose.The following error message:(ERROR) No copying is performed because of errors found in validation.means thatdtdocbook2infolib adminfound a problem in the validation phase
and did not copy the bookcase into the destination
library. The problem may be version mismatch or
duplicate IDs.The following error message:(ERROR) Data version mismatch
   "checkBaseversion = #
   "installBaseversion = #means thatdtdocbook2infolib adminfound a database version mismatch in the
bookcase you are copying (checkbase) and the bookcase
that exists in the information library (installed base).
Rebuild the bookcases with the same version of the build
tools.The following error message:(ERROR) Duplicate ID value [ID] found inBookCaseNamemeans thatdtdocbook2infolib adminfoundIDin the bookcase you are copying and inBookCaseName, the bookcase into which you are
copying. All IDs must be unique. Change the ID value of
one of the sections in the SGML document and rebuild
the bookcases.The following error message:(ERROR) The position you chose is not valid. Please
specify a valid position for the bookcase.means that the position you specified for a particular bookcase is out
of range. Please specify a valid position for the bookcase.The following error message:(ERROR) Unable to removeBookCaseNamefromInfoLibPathmeans thatdtdocbook2infolib adminwas unable to remove bookcaseBookCaseNamefrom the information libraryInfoLibPath. Verify that you have the correct
permissions for changing this bookcase. It may be that this bookcase
does not exist in the information library, or the bookcase
path is not valid.The following error message:(ERROR) You have chosen an invalid number. Please specify a number 1-6.means that
you have chosen a number that is out of range.