Creating a Style Sheetstyle sheetscreatingA style sheet consists of optional definitions for system-generated
number tokens, followed by sets of element path statements and their
formatting specifications. To create a style sheet for use with
the Information Manager, follow these steps:Open a new file, using a text editor such asvioremacs, or an SGML editor.In the file, identify the style sheet name by giving
a value to the Name attribute of the StyleSheet element. For example:<StyleSheet name=sty1>This name must be unique across style sheets in a bookcase.If you plan to use theAutoNumberfeature, create an autonumber for each token stream. System-generated
number tokens can be used only with the Prefix and Suffix features. For example:<AutoNumber id=num0  reset=enumeratedlist  counter=numitem  type=ucroman  initial="1">
<AutoNumber id=num1  reset=enumeratedlist  counter=numitem  type=lcroman  initial="1">
<AutoNumber id=num2  reset=enumeratedlist  counter=numitem  type=arabic  initial="1">For more information on using the autonumber feature, see AutoNumbers in thedtinfoStyle.dtd(5)man page.Using an elementPathstatement, specify the path to the element for which you are defining
the style.Pathstatements
are read left to right, parent element to child element. You need
only specify the minimum unique path to any given element. This
example specifies the path to the LITERALLAYOUT element:<Path>LITERALLAYOUT</Path>For eachPathyou must specify either theOnlinefeature set or thePrintfeature set, or both. To specify both, you must define the on-line
features first. For example:<Path>
LITERALLAYOUT</Path>
<Online>
   <Font fallback=mono>
   <Family name=courier weight=medium size=12 charset=iso8859-1>
   <Layout flow=verbatim lindent=12 aspace=6 bspace=6>
   <LineBreak both>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Font fallback=mono>
   <Family name=courier weight=medium size=12 charset=iso8859-1>
   <Layout flow=verbatim lindent=12 aspace=6 bspace=6>
   <LineBreak both>
</Print>ThePrintandOnlinefeature sets
match in function, description, and specification except for two
print-specific exceptions:MediumandPageBreak.Repeat steps 4 and 5 for each elementPathfor which you want to specify
a particular style.Using Style FeaturesThe style features discussed in this chapter are:Font FeaturesFontHighLightLayout FeaturesLayoutLineBreakMarginPositionPrint-specific FeaturesMediumPageBreakTable FeaturesTableColFormatRowCellTGroupOther FeaturesBorderIgnorePrefix and
SuffixFont FeaturesThe style sheet features described in this section&mdash;Font, andHighLight&mdash; are related
to the appearance of text in the Information Manager browser.FontTheFontfeature
specifies font families and character sets, and font attributes.
The syntax of theFontfeature contains font attribute specifications, followed by any
number ofFamilysubfeatures,
in which the font family and character sets are specified.TheFontfeature eliminates character set ambiguities. Here's the syntax:<Font
 Fallback = {sans | serif | mono | symbol | mincho | gothic}
 Position = {subscript | sub | superscript | super | baseline}
 Size = [0-9]+
 Slant = {italic| roman}
 Spacing = {char | prop | mono}
 Style = "string"
 Weight = {bold| medium}
 Width = {normal | narrow}>
<Family
 Name = "string"
 Charset = "string"
 Foundry = "string" >
</Font>Font AttributesTheFontattributes
define the typography of the specified element. The following font
attributes are used by all font families in the
Information Manager browser.FallbackTheFallbackattribute specifies the font family to use if the desiredFamilyis not available on the
font server. The available options map to the following
Information Manager X resources, which are
shown with the default values provided in the global X resources
file. If theFallbackattribute is not specified, the default issans.sansSpecifies a sans serif font. TheDtinfo*FontSansdefault is-dt-application-medium-r-normal-sans-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1.serifSpecifies a serif font. TheDtinfo*FontSerifdefault is-dt-application-medium-r-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-p-*-iso8859-1.monoSpecifies a mono-spaced font. TheDtinfo*FontMonodefault is-dt-application-medium-r-normal-serif-*-*-*-*-m-*-iso8859-1.symbolSpecifies a symbol font. TheDtinfo*FontSymboldefault is-dt-application-medium-r-normal-*-*-*-*-*-p-*-dtsymbol-1.minchoThe default isDtinfo*FontMincho.gothicThe default isDtinfo*FontGothic.PositionSpecifies where text should be placed relative to
the baseline. The options are:superscript(above the baseline) andsubscript(below the baseline). You can use the termssuperandsubas shorthand forsuperscriptandsubscript.SizeSpecifies the font size in points. The default is
14 points.SlantThe values for theSlantattribute areromanoritalic. The default isroman.SpacingSpecifies character spacing, eitherprop(proportional),char(character cell), ormono(monospaced).
The default ischar.StyleSpecifies additional style information.
The default is no additional style information.WeightSpecifies the weight of the font, eithermedium(regular) orbold(thick). The default ismedium.WidthSpecifies the width of the font, eithernormalornarrow. The default isnormal.Font Family SubfeatureTheFamilysubfeature
specifies one or more font families and character sets. The following
list defines the attributes for theFamilysubfeature:FamilyTheFamilyattribute specifies the font family and character sets used for
display in the
Information Manager browser. The possibleFamilyvalues are strings specifying:FoundryThe name of the font company.Foundryis an optional parameter.NameThe name of the font.Nameis a required parameter.CharsetThe name of the encoding standard to which the font
conforms.Charsetis
a required parameter.The specified font names and character sets must be available on the
font server of the system that will be displaying the Information
Manager documents. If noFamilyspecifications
are used, the element uses the font specified with theFallbackattribute of theFontfeature.The following example illustrates an online path statement
that usesFontandFamilyattributes:<Path>
PARA</Path>
<Online>
   <Font  Fallback=sans  Weight=medium  Slant=roman  Size=12  Spacing=prop  Slant=italic  Width=normal>
   <Family  Name=helvetica  Charset=iso8859-1>
</Online>Font InheritanceTheFontfeature
isinherited. Inheritance
determines the set of fonts and font characteristics that will be
applied to inheriting elements. To mask out a font face, both the
fontFamilyfeature and
theCharsetattribute
must be set. Masking occurs because of theCharsetattribute.To change an element's inherited font characteristics, you
need only change the appropriateFontfeature, not the completeFont/Familyspecification. For example:<Font Weight=bold>would be sufficient to change an inherited characteristic
for a given element.HighLightTheHighLightfeature
specifies font-independent display highlights.
TheHighLightfeature isinherited. Its syntax
is:<Highlight
BGColor = "colors"
FGColor = "colors"
Overline = {true | false}
StrikeThrough = {true | false}
Underline = {true | false}>Reverse video, and background
and foreground colors are supported in theOnlinefeature sets only. Boxed, overline, strike through, and underline
can be used in both thePrintandOnlinefeature sets.
The default background and foreground colors are defined in the
X resources file.TheHighLightfeature has the following attributes.BGColorSpecifies screen background color. You can choose
from any X Window System color name.FGColorSpecifies screen background color. You can choose
from any X Window System color name.OverlineDraws a line above the element. Attribute values
aretrueandfalse.StrikeThroughDraws a line through the element. Attribute values
aretrueandfalse.UnderlineDraws a line below the element. Valid values
aretrueandfalse.This example shows aPathstatement for underlining a TERM
element.<Path>
VARLISTENTRY TERM</Path>
<Online>
   <Highlight  underline=true>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Highlight  underline=true>
</Print>Layout FeaturesThe style sheet features described in this section&mdash;Layout,LineBreak,Margin, andPosition&mdash; are related
to the layout of screens and pages in the
Information Manager browser.LayoutTheLayoutfeature
specifies element spacing, indentation, and text flow formatting.
The syntax forLayoutis:<Layout
ASpace = [0-9]+
BSpace = [0-9]+
Leading = [0-9]+
FIndent = [0-9]+
LIndent = [0-9]+
RIndent = [0-9]+
Flow = {verbatim | filled}
Justify = {left | right | center}
Wrap = {block | join | none}>Possible formatting attributes are:ASpace,BSpaceThese attributes specify the space in points above
and below the current element. The default value is 10 points.LeadingTheLeadingattribute specifies the inter-line space, in points, between the
baseline of one line of text and the top of the highest ascending
character of the following line. The default value is 2 points.FIndent,LIndent,RIndentThese attributes specify the first, left, and right
indents, respectively, of a text element. Each value, expressed
in points, is relative to any surrounding elements or to the value
set with theMarginfeature.
The default value is 0 (zero).FlowTheFlowattribute specifies how the whitespace and linefeed characters in
the current element are to be handled.verbatimIf the valueverbatimis chosen, whitespace and linefeed characters are considered significant.
That is, the text line is not automatically wrapped but is allowed
to extend beyond the text margin and the window border until a linefeed
character is encountered. The valueverbatimalso causes the horizontal scroll bar to be displayed as necessary
to accommodate the text line.filledIf the valuefilledis chosen, whitespace and linefeed characters are not considered
significant and the text line is wrapped if it extends beyond the
window border. The default value isfilled.JustifyTheJustifyattribute specifies how text lines within the current element are
to be aligned.leftThe valueleftcauses text lines to be aligned along the left margin, while the
right margin runs ragged.rightThe valuerightcauses text lines to be aligned along the right margin, while the
left margin runs ragged.centerThe valuecentercauses text lines to be aligned to the center, with ragged left
and right margins.WrapTheWrapattribute works with thePositionfeature and specifies how text within the current element should
flow.When theWrapattribute and thePositionfeature are used, theLineBreakfeature is ignored.Layoutis aninheritedfeature.This example uses theLayoutfeature:<Path>
LITERALLAYOUT</Path>
<Online>
   <layout  Flow=verbatim  LIndent=12  ASpace=6  BSpace=6  Leading=4>
</Online>LineBreakTheLineBreakfeature
inserts a line break before and/or after the current element. The
syntax is:<LineBreak {before | after | both}>The three possible values forLineBreakare:beforeInserts a line break before the current element.afterInserts a line break after the current element.bothInserts a line break both before and after the current
element.LineBreakis not
inherited.This example usesLineBreakwith a value ofboth:&lt;Path>
PREFACE TITLE&lt;/Path>
&lt;Online>
   &lt;LineBreak  both>
   &lt;Fontsize=20 weight=medium>
   &lt;/Online>
&lt;Print>
   &lt;LineBreak&  both>
   &lt;Font  size=24 weight=bold>
&lt;/Print>MarginTheMarginfeature
specifies the boundaries of the document rendering area, in points.<Margin
Bottom = [0-9]+
Top = [0-9]+
Left = [0-9]+
Right = [0-9]+>The values for theMarginattribute are:BottomSpecifies the vertical space following the last
line on the screen or page.TopSpecifies the vertical space preceding the first
line on the screen or page.LeftSpecifies the distance between the left edge of
the element and the left edge of the screen or page.For on-line margins, the system uses 18 points of space
in the left margin for items such as Bookmark icons. Thus, any value
assigned toLeft(for
on-line rendering) would be in addition to the 18-point system-defined
setting.RightSpecifies the distance between the right edge of
the element and the right edge of the screen or page.TheMarginfeature
isinheritedand should
only be used on the root element of an element hierarchy. Here's
an example of aPathstatement containingFont,Family, andMarginattributes:<Path>
CHAPTER</Path>
<Online>
   <Font  Fallback=sans  Weight=medium  Slant=roman Size=18>
   <Family  Name=helvetica  Charset=iso8859-1>
   <Margin  Left=6  Right=12  Top=18  Bottom=18>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Font  Fallback=sans  Weight=medium  Slant=roman  Size=24>
   <Family  Name=helvetica  Charset=iso8859-1>
   <Margin  Left=18  Right=18  Top=18  Bottom=18>
</Print>PositionThePositionfeature
is used with theWrapattribute of theLayoutfeature to specify where the current element should start relative
to the defined margins, and how text should flow in the current
and succeeding elements.<Position
Horiz = {lcorner | left | lmargin | center | rcorner | Right | rmargin}
Vert = {bottom | middle | top}>ThePositionfeature is not inherited.Print-specific FeaturesThe style sheet features described in this section&mdash;Medium, andPageBreak&mdash; are specific
to Information Manager print functionality.MediumTheMediumfeature
specifies the orientation and size of the print medium. TheMediumfeature isinheritedand should be
specified at the root-level of an element hierarchy.<Medium
Orientation = {landscape | portrait}TheMediumfeature
has anOrientationattribute,
which specifies the orientation of the text on the printed
page. Values for theOrientationattribute arelandscapeandportrait.Here is an example<Path>statement using theMediumfeature:<path>CHAPTER
</path>
<print>
   <Medium Orientation="portrait">
</print>PageBreakThe PageBreak feature inserts a page break before and/or after
the current element. The syntax is:<PageBreak {before | after | both}>The three possible values forPageBreakare:beforeInserts a page break before the current element.afterInserts a page break after the current element.bothInserts a page break both before and after the current
element.ThePageBreakfeature
is not inherited.This example usesPageBreakwith a value ofbefore:<Path>SECT1 TITLE
</Path>
<Print>
   <PageBreak  before>
   <Font  size=30 weight=bold>
</Print>Table FeaturesThe style sheet features described in this section&mdash;Table,ColFormat,Row,CellColSep, Frame, and Rowsep
&mdash; are related to
the formatting of
Information Manager tables. A set ofPathstatements illustrating the use of the set ofTablefeatures is provided at
the end of the section. (SeeTable
Example.)TableTheTablefeature
is used to format a two-dimensional grid. The style sheet parsing
cannot check for the use ofCell,ColFormat, orRowfeatures on child elements
of any element whereTableis used. Users must verify these features manually.Tablesyntax is:<Table
ColSep = "integer"
Frame ={ Top | Bottom | TopBot | Sides | All | None }
RowSep = "integer"
>TheTablefeature
has the following attributes:ColSepTheColSepattribute specifies whether or not a vertical
rule (line) is to be displayed at the right edge of the cells in the table. A value
of 0 indicates false, any integer other than 0 indicates true.FrameTheFrameattribute controls the placement
of rulings (lines) around the outer edges of the
TGroups that form the body of a Table. There are three primitive values
(Top,Bottom,None), and three compound values (TopBot,Sides,All). The default isNone.RowsepTheRowsepattribute specifies whether or not a horizontal
rule (line) is to be displayed at the bottom edge of
cells in the table. A value of 0 indicates false, any integer other than 0 indicates true.<Path>
TABLE</Path>
<Online>
   <Table Cols=3>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Table Cols=3>
</Print>TheTablefeature is not inherited.TGroupTheTGroupfeature specifies the formatting
for a portion of a table. Note that the style sheet parser cannot check for the
use ofCell,ColFormat, orRowfeatures on child elements of the element whereTGroupis used, so users must check manually.The TGroup feature has the following attributes:CharAlignTheCharAlignattribute specifies the character to use as the
alignment point within cells if the
TGroup'sJustifyattribute is set toChar.
The default is the period character.ColSepTheColSepattribute specifies whether or not a
vertical rule (line) is to be displayed at the right edge of cells
in the table. A value of 0 indicates false, any integer other than 0 indicates true.JustifyTheJustifyattribute specifies horizontal alignment of
text in the cells of the table. ForLeft, textlines are
aligned along the left margin and ragged on the right. ForRight,
textlines are aligned along the right margin and ragged on the left. ForCenter,
textlines are ragged on both margins and aligned along the center of the element. TheCharoption aligns
text&mdash; usually numbers&mdash; with two characters in each line to the right of the character
specified by the CharAlign attribute, and the rest of the line to the left. The default value for theJustifyattribute is Left. Note that CALS tables specify a value of "justify"
(meaning both left- and right-aligned text)&mdash; this is not supported.RowSepTheRowSepattribute specifies whether or not a
horizontal rule (line) is to be displayed at the bottom edge of
cells in the table. A value of 0 indicates false, any integer other than 0 indicates true.VJustifyTheVJustifyattribute specifies vertical positioning
of the content of cells in the table. The differences
among the three settings are only noticeable for cells whose content
does not fill the cell from top
to bottom. ForTop, the content is started at the top of a cell and
may complete before the bottom
of the cell. ForBottom, the content ends at the bottom of a cell;
there may be unused space above the content. ForMiddle, the content is vertically centered in a cell.
The default value for theVJstifyattribute isTop.<TGroup
 CharAlign = "char"
 ColSep = "integer"
 Justify = { Left | Right | Center | Char }
 RowSep = "integer"
 VJustify = { Top | Middle | Bottom }
>TheTGroupfeature is not inherited.ColFormatTheColFormatfeature
specifies the formatting for individual columns in a table. You
use oneColFormatfeature
for each column in the table, in left-to-right order. If a table
instance has 10 columns and the containingTableelement (which uses theTablefeature) hasColFormatfeatures for only 8 of the columns, the last two columns get the
default values of the last specifiedColFormatfeature.<ColFormat
 Charalign = "char"
 ColSep = "integer"
 Justify = {left | right | center | char}
 Name = "string"
 RowSep = "integer"
 Width = [0-9]+
>TheColFormatfeature
has the following attributes:CharalignSpecifies the character to use in columns where
theJustifyattribute
is set toChar. The default
is the period (.) character.ColSepTheColSepattribute specifies whether or not a vertical rule (line)
is to be displayed at the right edge of cells in columns that use this format.
A value of 0 indicates false, any integer other than 0 indicates true.JustifySpecifies how to handle text lines in the column.
Possible values are:leftAligns the text to the left margin. The right margin
runs ragged.rightAligns the text to the right margin. The left margin
runs ragged.centerAligns the text to the center of the element. The
left and right margins run ragged.charAligns text, usually numbers, with two characters
in each line to the right of the character specified by theCharAlignattribute. The rest
of the characters align left.The default value for theJustifyattribute isleftin
Information Manager, unlike
CALS tables, in which thejustifyattribute value specifies left and right alignment.NameTheNameattribute is a string that is used by theCellfeature to reference the particular column formatting
(ColFormat) attributes to use.RowSepTheRowSepattribute specifies whether or not a horizontal rule (line)
is to be displayed at the bottom edge of cells in columns that use this format.
A value of 0 indicates false, any integer other than 0 indicates true.WidthTheWidthattribute specifies the width of the column relative to other columns.For example, if three column formats are referenced from a
row, their width values divided by their total widths will determine
the amount of space used. Thus, if column A has a width value of
90, and columns B and C each have width values of 180, column A
will be formatted to use 20% (90/450).If theWidthattribute
is not specified, the rows of the column instance are examined,
and the widest segment found there is used as the default width
of that column.TheColFormatfeature
is not inherited.Here is an example of a path statement using theColFormatfeature:<Path>
TABLE</Path>
<Online>
   <ColFormat Cols=3  Justify=left  Name="column1"  Width=90>
</Online>
<Print>
   <ColFormat Cols=3  Justify=left  Name="column1"  Width=90>
</Print>RowTheRowfeature
identifies the beginning of a row, typically in a table. It can
be used withCellandTable.<Row><Row
 RowSep = "integer"
 VJustify = { Top | Middle | Bottom }
>TheRowfeature
has the following attributes:RowsepRowSep specifies whether or not a horizontal rule (line) is to be displayed at the bottom edge of
cells in the row. A value of 0 indicates false, any integer other than 0 indicates true.VJustifyTheVJustifyattribute specifies vertical positioning of the content of cells in the row. The differences among
the three settings are only noticeable for cells whose content does not fill the cell from top to
bottom. ForTop, the content is started at the top of a cell and may complete before the bottom of
the cell. ForBottom, the content ends at the bottom of a cell; there may be unused space above
the content. ForMiddle, the content is vertically centered in a cell. The default value for theVJustifyattribute isTop.TheRowfeature is not inherited.<Path>ROW
</Path>
<Online>
   <Row>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Row>
</Print>CellTheCellfeature specifies the formatting to
use for a cell. It also identifies the beginning of the cell and defines
its horizontal and vertical spans.<Cell
 CharAlign = "char"
 ColRef = "string"
 ColSep = "integer"
 ColStart = "string"
 ColEnd = "string"
 Justify = { Left | Right | Center | Char }
 SpanRows = [0-9]+
 VJustify = { Top | Middle | Bottom }TheCellfeature
has the following attributes:CharAlignTheattribute specifies the character to use as the alignment point in cells where the Justify
attribute is set to Char. The default is the period (.) character.ColRefTheColRefattribute is a string that references the name of the column format
(ColFormat) to use for
formatting the cell.ColSepTheColSepattribute specifies whether or not a vertical rule (line) is to be displayed at the right edge of the
cell. A value of 0 indicates false, any integer other than 0 indicates true.ColStartTheColStartattribute refers to the column
(defined by the namedColFormat)
to use as the starting
(leftmost) column for a horizontally-spanned cell. IfColEndisn't also specified,ColStartserves the same purpose asColRef.ColEndTheColEndattribute
refers to the column (defined by the namedColFormat) to use as the rightmost
column for a horizontally-spanned cell. Ignored ifColStartisn't also specified.JustifyTheJustifyattribute specifies
horizontal alignment of text in the cell. ForLeft, textlines are aligned along
the left margin and ragged on the right. ForRight, textlines are aligned along the right margin
and ragged on the left. ForCenter, textlines are ragged on both margins and aligned along the
center of the element. TheCharoption aligns text&mdash; usually numbers&mdash; with two characters in
each line to the right of the character specified by theCharAlignattribute, and the rest of the
line to the left. The default value for theJustifyattribute isLeft. Note that CALS tables
specify a value of "justify" (meaning both left- and right-aligned text)&mdash; this is not supported.SpanRowsTheSpanRowsattribute specifies the vertical span of the cell. The value ofSpanRowsmust be a positive
number. The default is 1.RowSepTheRowSepattribute specifies
whether or not a horizontal rule (line) is to be displayed at the bottom edge of
the cell. A value of 0 indicates false, any integer other than 0 indicates true.VJustifyTheVJustifyattribute specifies
vertical positioning of cell content. The differences among the three settings
are only noticeable for cells whose content does not fill the cell from top to bottom. ForTop, the
content is started at the top of the cell and may complete before the bottom of the cell. ForBottom, the content ends at the bottom of the cell; there may be unused space above the content.
ForMiddle, the content is vertically centered in the cell. The default value for theVJustifyattribute isTop.TheCellfeature
can be used with theRowandTablefeatures.
If a single element implies the beginning of a table, row, and cell,
all three features can be used.TheCellfeature
is not inherited.<Path>TABLE
</Path>
<Online>
   <Cell  ColRef="column1"  SpanCols=1  SpanRows=1>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Cell  ColRef="column1"  SpanCols=1  SpanRows=1>
</Print>The following set ofPathstatements illustrates how a table might be specified in a style
sheet. The example uses attribute references to assign values to
the table-related features. These values would be specified in other
elements in the document.Table Example<Path>TABLE
</Path>
<Online>
   <Border display="@frame">
</Online>

<Path>TGROUP
</Path>
<Online>
   <Table Cols="@cols">
</Online>

<Path>COLSPEC
</Path>
<Online>
   <ColFormat Justify="@align" Name="@colname" Width="@colwidth">
</Online>

<Path>TBODY
</Path>
<Online>
   <Border
   display=all>
</Online>

<Path>ROW
</Path>
<Online>
   <Row>
</Online>

<Path>ENTRY
</Path>
<Online>
   <Cell  ColRef="@colname"  SpanCols="@nameend -  @namest + 1" SpanRows="@morerows + 1>
   <border display=all>
</Online>Other FeaturesThe style sheet features described in this section areBorder,Ignore, andPrefix and Suffix.BorderTheBorderfeature is used to
draw rule lines at the outside
edges of an element. Its syntax is:<Border
 Display = {bottom | left | right | top | all | horiz | vert }
 Thickness = [0-9]+>TheBorderfeature
has the following attributes:DisplayTheDisplayattribute accepts the following values:bottomSpecifies a rule line below the element.leftSpecifies a rule line to the left of the element.rightSpecifies a rule line to the right of the element.topSpecifies a rule line above the element.allThis compound value specifies rule lines above,
below, and to the right and left of the element.horizThis compound value specifies rule lines above and
below the element.vertThis compound value specifies rule lines to the
left and right of the element.ThicknessSpecifies the line weight of the border in points. The value
ofThicknessmust be
a positive number.TheBorderfeature
is not inherited.This examplePathstatement displays a 2-point border around the LINK element.<Path>
LINK</Path>
<Online>
   <Border  Display=all  Thickness=2>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Border  Display=al  Thickness=2>
</Print>IgnoreIgnorespecifies
whether the contents of the element are to be displayed or printed.
Its syntax is:<Ignore
>This examplePathstatement specifies that text delimited by the VERSION
element will not be displayed or printed.<Path>VERSION
</Path>
<Online>
   <Ignore>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Ignore>
</Print>TheDTINFO.Ignorearchitectural form prevents an element
and its contents from being placed in the full-text index and document
database. The Ignore feature also prevents the content from being
rendered. For more information, seeUnderstanding
Architectural Forms.Prefix and SuffixThePrefixandSuffixfeatures add constant
text before and after the content of an element. Each instance of
aPrefixorSuffixfeature must include oneContentsubfeature and
any number of additionalallowedfeatures.<Prefix>
 <Content>
 {#PCDATA | Auto}+ </content>allowed features</Prefix>
<Suffix>
 <Content>
 {#PCDATA | Auto}+ </content>allowed features</Suffix>PrefixandSuffixfeatures are not inherited.Content Subfeature and Allowed
Features for Prefix and SuffixTheContentsubfeature
can contain any combination of text or system-generated number tokens.To specify a system-generated number token, use theAutosubfeature, which has one
required attribute&mdash;ID.
TheIDin this case is the name of the number token specified with theAutoNumberfeature. Use both start and end tags when using theContentsubfeature.You can specify the following allowed features in aPrefixorSuffixfeature.FontHighLightLayoutLineBreakPositionThis example shows aPrefixandSuffixfor the CAUTION element:<Path>CAUTION
<Path/>
<Online>
   <Prefix>
   <Content>CAUTION:
   </Content>
   <Font Weight=bold size=14>
   <Layout LIndent=6 ASpace=6>
   <Linebreak both>
   <Highlight Underline=true>
   </Prefix>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Prefix>
   <Content>CAUTION:
   </Content>
   <Font Weight=bold size=14>
   <Layout LIndent=6 ASpace=6>
   <Linebreak both>
   <Highlight Underline=true>
   </Prefix>
</Print>

<Path>CAUTION<Path/>
<Online>
   <Suffix><Content>CAUTION:
   </Content>
   <Font Weight=bold size=14>
   <Layout LIndent=6 ASpace=6>
   <Linebreak both>
   <Highlight Underline=true>
   </Suffix>
</Online>
<Print>
   <Suffix>
   <Content>WARRANTY ALERT
   </Content>
   <Font Weight=bold Size=14>
   <Layout LIndent=6 ASpace=6>
   <Linebreak both>
   <Highlight Underline=true>
   </SUFFIX>
</Print>