
# Understanding Architectural Forms
architectural formsunderstanding

You use the
Information Manager to build a bookcase, a collection of
books in an information library, from a set of SGML documents.
For some of these documents, such as style sheets, the SGML
document type is defined by SGML DTDs distributed with the
Information Manager. For others, such as the content of your books, you
may use any document type definition (DTD).

Many SGML applications face the problem of understanding the
semantics that should be attached to elements in any arbitrary
DTD. To handle this, the Information Manager provides architectural forms.

An architectural form is a name given to a class containing
elements that are to be processed uniformly by some application.
Architectural forms define base classes. The specific SGML
element defined in a specific DTD is then treated as a subclass.
To implement architectural forms, you annotate your DTD with
standard SGML attributes corresponding to
Information Manager architectural
forms. In most cases, the architectural forms are defined using
the`FIXED`keyword,
setting a specific attribute value for all
instances of the element in all documents.
# Simple Example of an Architectural Form


You must modify your existing DTDs so the
Information Manager can
manage the information correctly. For example, the
Information Manager
uses &ldquo;titles&rdquo; to determine the content displayed in various fields
of the Information Manager Reading windows. Of course, in any specific DTD, the choices
of a Generic Identifier for a title object are limitless. It could be
called`head`,`h1`,`title`,`ti`, and so on. To allow the application to
identify these title objects, we apply the attribute`DTINFO.Title`to our
DTD. So, for example, if our specific element is named`head`:<!ELEMENT   HEAD  - - (PCDATA) >
<!ATTLIST   HEAD
               DTINFO.Title  NAME #FIXED "#CONTENT">

As the application is processing a document, every instance of
the element`HEAD`will have associated with it an attribute named`DTINFO.Title`. The application can recognize this and process the
content of the element as it would any title.

Applying architectural forms does not affect
the validity of your SGML instances. For
more information on applying architectural
forms to your DTD, seeModifying your
Existing DTD.
# How Architectural Forms Fit in the Toolkit Model


The figureToolkit Modelillustrates how different pieces of
information interact during the build process. The shaded area
in the figure represents the part of the build involving
architectural forms.
# Toolkit Model


For information on developing a bookcase document under the
DTD provided by the Information Manager, seeCreating a Bookcase
Document. For details on creating
a style sheet document which conforms to thedtinfoStyle.dtd, seeCreating a Style Sheet.