
# Starting a Desktop Session


A desktop session occurs between the time
you log in and the time you log out.

The login screen, displayed by the Login Manager, is your gateway to the
desktop.login screenIt provides a place for you to type your login name and password.
The Options menu on the login screen lists your login options. In addition to
running a desktop session, you can run a failsafe session. You can
also select the language for your session.










# Starting and Ending a Desktop Session


A desktop session starts when you log in. Session Manager is started after
Login Manager authenticates your login and password.

Session Manager provides the ability tomanagesessions&mdash;to remember the
state of your most recent session and return you there the next time you log in.

Session Manager saves and restores:

The appearance and behavior settings &ndash; for example, fonts, colors, and
mouse settings.

The window applications that were running &ndash; for example, your File
Manager and Text Editor windows. Certain types of applications can't be
saved and restored by Session Manager. For example, if you start thevieditor from a command line in a Terminal window, Session Manager cannot
restore your editing session.
# To Log In to a Desktop Session


Type your login name and press Return or click OK.logging in

Type your password and press Return or click OK.desktop session

If Login Manager does not recognize your name or password, click Start
Over and start the log in process over again.

Once you've logged in, Session Manager starts a session:

If this is the first time you've logged in, you'll get a new session.

If you've logged in before, your previous session will be restored.
# To Log Out


Click the Exit control in the Front Panel.logging outFront PanelExit controlExit control

Or, choose Log out from the Workspace menu.

When you log out of a regular desktop session, Session Manager saves
information about your current session so that it can be restored the next time
you log in. Information about non-desktop applications may not be saved.
# To Use a Session in a Different Language


Choose Language from the Options menu on the login screen.language, setting for desktop session

Choose the language group that includes the language you need.

Select a language.

Log in.

The default language for your system is set by your system administrator. The
Options menu enables you to access other languages. Choosing a language in
the Options menu sets the LANG environment variable for your session. The
default language is restored at the end of the session.
# Starting a Failsafe Session


failsafe sessionA failsafe session is a session that starts a single Terminal window (and
optionally Workspace Manager). It is useful when you need access to a single
Terminal window to execute several commands before logging in to a desktop
session.
# To Log In to a Failsafe Session


Choose Session from the Options menu.

Choose Failsafe Session from the Session submenu.

Log in.
# To Log Out of a Failsafe Session


Type theexitcommand in a Terminal window.
# Starting a Command-Line Session


Command Line Login mode enables you to temporarily leave the desktop to
work in your operating system environment. Command Line Login mode is not
a desktop session. When your system is in Command Line Login mode, the
desktop is suspended. You log in using your operating system mechanism
rather than Login Manager. There are no windows because the X server is not
running.Command Line Login modedefinition of
# To Log In to and Out of a Command-Line Session


Certain types of configurations (for example, X terminals) do not
provide a Command Line Login mode option.

To enter Command Line Login mode:Command Line Login modelogging in toCommand Line Login modeexitingstartingCommand Line Login Mode

Choose Command Line Login from the Options menu.

The login screen disappears and is replaced by a console prompt.

Supply your login and password as prompted.

To leave Command Line Login mode:

Typeexitat a command-line prompt.
# Using a Home Session


Ordinarily, the desktop saves session information when you log out and uses
that information to start your next session. If you start or stop applications
during your session, or use Style Manager to change the appearance and
behavior of your system, changes you make are reflected in your next session.
This type of session is called acurrent session.current sessiondefinition ofhome sessiondefinition ofsessioncurrentsessionhome

The desktop also provides ahome session. A home session is a session that you
explicitly save. It's like taking a snapshot of your current session at some point
in time. Once you've saved a home session, you can specify that logging in
always restores that session instead of the current session.
# To Save a Home Session


Click the Style Manager control in the Front Panel.home sessionsetting

Click the Startup control in Style Manager.

The Startup dialog box is displayed.

Click Set Home Session in the Startup dialog box.

Click OK in the confirmation dialog box that appears.

This saves the current state of your session.
# To Automatically Start the Home Session at Login


Click the Style Manager control in the Front Panel.home sessionstarting automatically at loginstartinghome session automatically at login

Click the Startup control in Style Manager.

The Startup dialog box is displayed.

Select Return to Home session.

Click OK.

When you choose Return to Home session, Session Manager will`not`save your
session at logout.
# To Choose Which Session to Start


On the Login screen, click the Options button.sessiondetermining at login

Click Session. The Session menu lists the available sessions:CurrentStarts your most recent session.HomeStarts your home session (if you set one).display-name- CurrentCreates a new session specific to your display and starts your display-specific
home session (if you created one), your generic home session (if one exists),
or a new user session.display-name- HomeCreates a new session specific to your display and starts either
your generic home session (if one exists) or a new user session.Failsafe SessionStarts a failsafe session.Click on the session you want to start.